  • [conference]

  • New User? Click Here >>

  • Log In Log Out
  • Search [                    ] [btn-search]

American Humanist Association

Advocating progressive values and equality for humanists, atheists, and
freethinkers

  • About the AHA
      □ Issues
      □ Frequently Asked Questions
      □ Humanists of the Year
      □ Board of Directors
      □ Board of Advisors
      □ Jobs & Internships
      □ Contact Us / Staff List
  • What Is Humanism
      □ What Is Humanism?
      □ Definitions of Humanism
      □ Humanism and Its Aspirations
      □ Quotations from Famous Humanists
      □ Humanist Media Resources
  • Our Work
      □ Local Groups
      □ Publications
      □ Media Outreach
      □ Coalitions
      □ Annual Conference
      □ AHA Programs
      □ Adjunct Organizations
  • AHA News
      □ Action Alerts
      □ Press Releases
      □ Press Kit
  • Support Humanism
      □ How You Can Support Humanism
      □ Planned Giving
      □ Humanist Charities
      □ Action Center
      □ Merchandise

[presaward06]

AHA President's Award

Recognize a humanist who exemplifies "good without a god" -- nominate someone
today!

President's Award

Nominate Today

Learn More
[conf2016_new]

75th Anniversary Conference

Register now! The AHA will be celebrating 75 Years of Humanism at our annual
conference May 26-29, 2016 in Chicago, IL!

Annual Conference

Register Now

Learn More
[humanist_slide_janfeb2016]

The Humanist Magazine

Read the latest issue of the Humanist Magazine, looking back at 75 years of
critical inquiry and social concern.

Humanist Magazine

Jab/Feb 2016

Learn More

News [icn-rss]

[DarwinDayLo]

Darwin on the Palouse Celebrates Science and Reason

The Humanists of the Palouse, with the Secular Student Alliance chapters at WSU
and UI, will host a Darwin Day event.

Learn More >>

[Church_Stat]

Florida Humanists: Help Students Sit Out the Pledge

Help the AHA oppose efforts to weaken the separation between church and state!

Learn More >>

[flag]

Signs Telling Students They Can Sit Out the Pledge Should Stay in Florida
Schools, Says Humanist Group

Florida introduces a state bill that would restrict students' free speech
rights.

Learn More >>

Read All Entries >>

[hdr-the-hu]

Latest Posts

I Looked a Terrorist in the Eye

Contemplating the anniversary, today, of the monumental Supreme Court ruling in
Jane Roe, et al. v. Henry Wade, I’m reminded of a time in the not so distant
past when, on many Saturday mornings, I would encounter terrorists on a
sidewalk in Englewood, New Jersey. These domestic terrorists were mostly men
who would shout their sacred […]

The Ethical Dilemma: “Cute” Religious Kitsch in Public School Teachers’ Lounge

Experiencing an ethical dilemma? Need advice from a humanist perspective? Send
your questions to The Ethical Dilemma at dilemma@thehumanist.com (subject line:
Ethical Dilemma). All inquiries are kept confidential. Religious Kitsch Not
Cool for School: I teach at a public school. In the staff/faculty lounge, an
outside private company displays various “cute” items for sale—cookbooks,
stationery […]

Film Review: 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi

13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi is an extremely engaging film with
seductive barracks’ wit, well-done action sequences, and calculated appeal to
the apolitical moviegoer. Yes, some of the humor is typical Michael Bay
juvenilia, regurgitating old locker-room jokes about nagging women or premature
fiascos. And yes, flair explosions are still used in scenes that neither need
[…]

The Cartoon History of Humanism, Episode 33

View all episodes in the Cartoon History of Humanism series. George, George,
and Fanny: How Three Nineteenth Century Women Invented Twenty-First Century
Humanism The first half of the twentieth century was a sickly time for
humanism, when each day seemed to bring new evidence of man’s irrational,
violent, and self-destructive nature. Civilized nations devolved into […]

Rules Are for Schmucks: Money Tips from the God Industry – Part 2

Last week we looked at increasing competition from Japanese Rent-a-Monks,
decreasing competition in the Israeli coffee industry, the lucrative refugee
industry, and the modern-day sale of indulgences. Here are a few more
interesting trends: Steal from the Collections New York’s Rev. Daniel Impaglia,
who pastors the Evangelical Rock Church on the Upper East Side, was […]

Year 2016 and Congress Still Not Serious About Science

Darwin Day, an observance held annually on February 12, Charles Darwin’s
birthday, is fast approaching. Scientists and secularists alike are getting
ready to celebrate. This observance is a great opportunity not only to honor
the legacy of the famous theorizer of evolution, but also to commemorate the
works of modern scientists and to spread scientific […]

The Humanist Hour #186: Mark Smith on Secular Faith: How Culture Has Trumped
Religion in American Politics

Click to download an audio file of this podcast. In this episode, Kim Ellington
welcomes new Humanist Hour co-host Jenn Wilson to the podcast and they both
speak with author Dr. Mark Smith about his new book, Secular Faith: How Culture
Has Trumped Religion in American Politics. Mark A. Smith provocatively argues
that religion is […]

Read More Articles >>

Other Publications >> Free Mind>> EPH

  • Become a MemberStrengthen the humanist voice
  • DonateSupport humanism
  • Take ActionStand up and be heard
  • Get LocalBe an activist in your community

  • The Humanist HourThe official podcast of the AHA
  • Shop HumanismBooks, stickers and more
  • Speak Your Mind!Discussion board for humanists

Learn more                                         Learn more     Learn more    Learn more                       Support
 about the  Learn more Learn more   Learn more      about the       about     about applying  Learn more about    LGBTQ
 Appignani  about our   about the    about the   Feminist Caucus   humanist     humanism to       huamnist      humanists
 Humanist    Boycott   Center for  International of the American  leadership   daily life at  education at The   at the
   Legal    the Pledge Freethought  Darwin Day      Humanist     The Humanist  the Humanist   Kochhar Humanist    LGBTQ
  Center     campaign   Equality    Foundation     Association    Institute       Society     Education Center  Humanist
                                                                                                                 Council

  • About Us
  • Privacy Policy
  • Contact Us
  • Shop
  • Community

 

CFC
# 19492     Best in America     GuideStar Exchange Valued Partner     Charity
Navigator - Four Star Rating     Better Business Bureau Accredited Charity

  • Follow us on Facebook
  • Follow us on Twitter
  • Watch AHA videos on Vimeo
  • View AHA photos on Flickr
  • Watch AHA videos on YouTube
  • Follow us on Tumblr

+ Power and Design from Boston + Liberty Concepts +

Copyright (C) 2016 American Humanist Association

