The Skeptical OB

The Skeptical OB

Dr. Amy

  • Home
  • Archives
  • Archives 2015
  • Adrienne’s story
  • About
  • Yoni cupcakes
  • Archives 2009
  • Archives 2008
  • Archives 2013
  • Archives 2012
  • Archives 2011
  • Archives 2014
  • Archives 2010

[image18]
Uncategorized

Natural parenting is a risk factor for tyranny

Homebirth, and natural childbirth advocates insist that “Peace on Earth Begins
With Birth.” That’s not what my research shows. I’ve discovered an astounding
fact about natural childbirth, breastfeeding and attachment ...

[image17-e1453390395921]
Uncategorized

Earth to lactivists: breasts ARE sexual!

The Mother-Whore dichotomy ought to be dead. It was proposed by Sigmund Freud
to explain a tendency for men to characterize women as either asexual,
nurturing and worthy of respect ...

[image15-e1453308519259]
Uncategorized

Imagine …

With apologies to John Lennon. Imagine there’s no new mom guilt It’s easy if
you try No C-section judgment on us Or epidurals midwives deny Imagine all the
mothers Trusting ...

  • [image18] Uncategorized Natural parenting is a risk factor for tyranny
  • [image17-e1453390395921] Uncategorized Earth to lactivists: breasts ARE
    sexual!
  • [image15-e1453308519259] Uncategorized Imagine …

You are here: Home

Spotlight

[image14]

January 19, 2016 | 266 Comments

Just how crazy is the lactivist lobby? No breasts is no longer an excuse not to
breastfeed.

Last week I received a Facebook message from a reader who had ...
[image11-e1453153551847]

January 18, 2016 | 249 Comments

If you judge women who bottle feed, I’m judging the hell out of YOU!

There’s a vile sanctimommy screed currently making the rounds. If You Don’t ...
[image10-e1452875809903]

January 15, 2016 | 122 Comments

Increase trust in obstetricians: confront the natural childbirth industry
working tirelessly to undermine it

Oh, the irony! Yesterday I wrote about the fact that the Childbirth ...

Latest News

[image18]

January 22, 2016 | 95 Comments

Natural parenting is a risk factor for tyranny

Homebirth, and natural childbirth advocates insist that “Peace on Earth Begins
With Birth.” That’s not what my research shows. I’ve discovered an astounding
fact about natural childbirth, breastfeeding and attachment parenting: all are
risk factors for tyranny, mass murder and a variety of other ills. Consider: Of
history’s greatest tyrants, men such as Hitler, Torquemada, […]

Continue Reading
[image17-e1453390395921]

January 21, 2016 | 114 Comments

Earth to lactivists: breasts ARE sexual!

The Mother-Whore dichotomy ought to be dead. It was proposed by Sigmund Freud
to explain a tendency for men to characterize women as either asexual,
nurturing and worthy of respect or sexually attractive. Unfortunately, the
Mother-Whore dichotomy is alive and well and being aggressively promoted by the
lactivism community. If you spend any time reading […]

Continue Reading
[image15-e1453308519259]

January 20, 2016 | 18 Comments

Imagine …

With apologies to John Lennon. Imagine there’s no new mom guilt It’s easy if
you try No C-section judgment on us Or epidurals midwives deny Imagine all the
mothers Trusting their OBs… Imagine there’s no pressure If breastfeeding’s hard
to do No reason to shame yourself or others And no natural childbirth too
Imagine all […]

Continue Reading
[image14]

January 19, 2016 | 266 Comments

Just how crazy is the lactivist lobby? No breasts is no longer an excuse not to
breastfeed.

Last week I received a Facebook message from a reader who had reached out to
her local La Leche League in Glendale, CA to find the safest local source for
donor breastmilk. I had breast cancer last year and am now pregnant. I have no
breasts to breastfeed with, and am wondering if your organization […]

Continue Reading
[image11-e1453153551847]

January 18, 2016 | 249 Comments

If you judge women who bottle feed, I’m judging the hell out of YOU!

There’s a vile sanctimommy screed currently making the rounds. If You Don’t
Breastfeed, I’m Judging the Hell Out of You by Alex Alexander is a perfect
example of hatefulness masquerading as concern for babies. But if you never
even tried — if your baby’s mouth never met nipple, for reasons of personal
choice that have […]

Continue Reading
[image10-e1452875809903]

January 15, 2016 | 122 Comments

Increase trust in obstetricians: confront the natural childbirth industry
working tirelessly to undermine it

Oh, the irony! Yesterday I wrote about the fact that the Childbirth Connection
is angered that estimated fetal weights are … gasp! … merely estimates. I cited
a recent piece in the NYTimes, When a Big Baby Isn’t So Big. In the comment
section, multiple people bewail the loss of trust in obstetricians, apparently
without […]

Continue Reading
[image9]

January 14, 2016 | 170 Comments

Childbirth Connection angered that estimated fetal weights are merely estimates

The Childbirth Connection is the leading lobbying organization for the natural
childbirth industry. Their apparent goal is greater employment for the women
they represent: midwives, doulas and childbirth educators. The heart of their
marketing strategy is to promote distrust of modern obstetrics and
obstetricians. As I noted almost exactly one year ago today, getting your […]

Continue Reading
[40197188_s-e1452701908]

January 13, 2016 | 182 Comments

The mind blowing grandiosity of quacktivists Jennifer Margulis and Kelly Brogan

Every notice how quacktivists often suffer from grandiosity? According to
Wikipedia: Grandiosity refers to an unrealistic sense of superiority … as well
as to a sense of uniqueness: the belief that few others have anything in common
with oneself and that one can only be understood by a few or very special
people … Take Jennifer […]

Continue Reading
[image6]

January 12, 2016 | 134 Comments

New study shows maternity clothes cause pregnancy

Startling finding announced in prestigious journal by Gull E. Bull Scientists
have made an astonishing discovery about the cause of pregnancy. According to
the study, published in the widely read journal JCS (Journal of Crap Science),
researchers have discovered a remarkable and powerful association between
maternity clothes and pregnancy raising the possibility that maternity clothes
[…]

Continue Reading
[image5]

January 11, 2016 | 116 Comments

Homebirth isn’t about women or birth; it’s about midwives

I’ve been engaged in an online discussion with other healthcare providers about
the NEJM Oregon study of out of hospital birth and it has crystallized for me
something I’ve suspected for a long time: Homebirth isn’t about women, babies
or birth; it’s about midwives. Think about it: Except in the Netherlands,
homebirth is (and has […]

Continue Reading
 
← Older posts

Amy Tuteur, MD

[6c08]

Dr. Amy Tuteur is an obstetrician gynecologist. She received her undergraduate
degree from Harvard College in 1979 and her medical degree from Boston
University School of Medicine in 1984. Dr. Tuteur is a former clinical
instructor at Harvard Medical School. She left the practice of medicine to
raise her four children. Her book, Push Back: Guilt in the Age of Natural
Parenting (HarperCollins) is available 4/5/16. She can be reached at DrAmy5 at
aol dot com... More

Now Available for Pre-Order

 [Push-Back-cover-small-e]

Push Back will be released in:

72Days 07Hours 49Minutes 09Seconds

Like us on Facebook!

[Search...           ] [ico-search]
[2-out-of-3-babies]

Thinking about homebirth? Watch this video!

For Fathers

The Doubtful Father's Guide to Homebirth

If homebirth is safe …

why does MANA's own data show a death rate 450% higher than hospital birth?

Homebirth Bingo

[Bingo-card]

Twelve things you shouldn’t say to Dr. Amy …

... unless you want to appear very foolish.

Dr. Amy in the News

  • TIME 5/14/13 Breastfeeding police
  • Times of London 3/6/13 Natural childbirth
  • TIME 8/3/12 Locking up formula
  • HuffPo video 8/2/12 Latch on NYC
  • New York Times 7/15/12 Milk Wars
  • The Daily Beast 7/5/12 Response to critics
  • Slate 7/3/12 Homebirth
  • Deadline News 6/27/12 Homebirth transfers
  • The Daily Beast 6/25/12 Homebirth
  • The Daily 6/12/12 Orgasmic Birth
  • American Medical News 2/13/12 Homebirth
  • NPR 1-26-12 Homebirths more popular (mp3 file)
  • TIME 11/1/11 Ricki Lake
  • Medscape 11/3/11 Consensus Summit
  • TIME 10/13/11 Natural childbirth
  • Times of London 7/15/11 Homebirth
  • LA Times 7/8/11 Homebirth
  • Boston Globe 4/17/11 Vaccine rejection
  • New York Times 2/4/11 Cameras in the delivery room
  • New York Times 1/4/11 Debating Homebirth
  • Times of London 6/29/10 C-section rates

Visual Archives

Visual Archives allows you to browse every post in the blog in a unique way.

2015• 2014• 2013• 2012• 2011• 2010• 2009• 2008

Recent Comments

Powered by Disqus

2013 in review

Homebirth deaths and disasters

Homebirth papers and statistics

Dr. Amy Interviews

Feminist Current podcast, Is ‘natural’ better when it comes to birth?

RH Reality Check podcast 12/16/12

Teen Skepchick interviews Dr. Amy.

The Podcast Beyond Belief hour-long interview of Dr. Amy. Download it here, or
directly from the podcast section of iTunes (episode 22).

Subscribe to Comments

RSS Comments

Archives

[Select Month  ]

Follow Me on Twitter

[Twitter-28]

Blogroll

  • Action to Improve Maternity
  • Awaiting Juno
  • Cesarean Debate
  • Childbirth Without Guilt
  • Debunking Denialism
  • Drop It And EAT
  • Fearless Formula Feeder
  • Happy With Hospital Birth
  • Hurt by Homebirth
  • Is Home Birth Safe?
  • Mama Doc
  • Married to Medicine
  • Mothering Many Feet
  • My Midwife Said What
  • On Becoming a Domestic and Laboratory Goddess
  • Pharyngula
  • Red Wine & Applesauce; Health and Science News for Moms
  • Respectful Insolence
  • Safer Midwifery for Michigan
  • Science-Based Medicine
  • Seattle Mama Doc
  • Skepchick
  • SquintMom.com
  • The Adequate Mother
  • The Learner
  • The Pediatric Insider
  • What If's & Fears are Welcome
  • What Pale Blue Dot?

Subscribe to posts

RSS Feed RSS - Posts

The Skeptical OB Copyright (C) 2016. All Rights Reserved.

Powered by WordPress. Designed by Woo Themes

web analytics
