  • About
  • Authors
  • Commenting Policy
  • Contact
  • Disclaimer

[Enter search keyword] [search]
[SNBanner20]

  • Canada
      □ Atlantic
      □ Quebec
      □ Ontario
      □ Prairies
      □ Alberta
      □ British Columbia
      □ Territories
  • Critical Thinking
      □ Cognition
      □ Logic and Fallacies
      □ Probability and Statistics
      □ Skepticism
  • Health
      □ Alt-Med or Alt-Menace?
      □ Alternative Medicine
      □ Diet and Nutrition
      □ Health Canada Approves...
      □ Health Policy
      □ Medical Conditions
      □ Medicinal Advertising
      □ Medicine
      □ Vaccines
  • Media
      □ Canada Speaks
      □ Events
      □ Reviews
      □ Skeptic North News
      □ Skeptical Fails and Wins
  • Science
      □ Astronomy
      □ Environment
      □ Evolution
      □ Paranormal
      □ Pseudoscience
  • Social Sciences
      □ Conspiracy Theories
      □ Culture
      □ Economics
      □ History

Featured Stories
There’s Nothing Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula Write Canadian MPs to
bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada Lisa Posard and Mark Huckaby
Homeopaths are not Medical Experts Naturopath Education: Still Replete With
Bollocks Health Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce
 
There’s Nothing Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula

There’s Nothing Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula

This is a guest post by Laura Creek Newman, RD, critically examining health
claims about infant formula made by Meghan Telpner, “Nutritionista”, in her
recent article What’s Lurking In That Baby Formula? I am going to preface this
with my background. I am a registered dietitian practicing for four years,
largely in all areas of […]

Write Canadian MPs to bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada

Write Canadian MPs to bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada

The fine folks at AllTrials have an important reminder for Canadians who are
concerned about clinical trial transparency, and it’s time-sensitive! We have
just heard that we have a chance to improve clinical trial transparency in
Canada. Bill C-17 or “Vanessa’s Law” is being considered this Tuesday and
there’s a chance to get clinical trial […]

Lisa Posard and Mark Huckaby

New Film Fights Vaccine Hesitancy

Fear sells. Parents are set up to respond to fear-based propaganda quite
handily: a new baby in the house puts everyone on alert, like having a delicate
glass globe balanced on a knife’s edge, ready to fall at the mere hint of a
breeze.  The information war over vaccination is an obvious reflection of this
[…]

Homeopaths are not Medical Experts

Homeopaths are not Medical Experts

The CBC recently aired a “National Check Up” health panel segment ostensibly to
discuss the current state of medical research. The panel, led by Peter
Mansbridge, consisted of  internal medicine specialist Dr. Ali Zentner; Dr.
Danielle Martin from Women’s College Hospital in Toronto; and alternative
medicine expert Bryce Wylde. Wylde is no stranger to those of […]

Naturopath Education: Still Replete With Bollocks

Naturopath Education: Still Replete With Bollocks

Naturopaths are allowed to call themselves doctors in Ontario, placing them
alongside Physicians, Dentists, Psychologists, Optometrists, and (regrettably)
Chiropractors as a statutorily-legitimized and protected class of healthcare
provider. When someone is given the right to call themselves a doctor, we
expect a very high level of medical training and expertise. So it’s fair to ask
just […]

Health Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce

Health Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce

Another foreign government report has been released concluding that homeopathy
is worthless. The UK government [pdf] concluded that homeopathy was no better
than placebo. The Swiss even threw them a bone and lowered the standard of
evidence for the review and came to the same conclusion. Now the Australian
government [pdf] has completed its review […]

Latest Posts...

Homeopaths Respond to CBC Marketplace

Homeopaths Respond to CBC Marketplace

11 December 2014 by Kim Hebert

On Friday, 28 November 2014, CBC Marketplace aired an episode (which I
recommend watching before reading this) in which they sent parents and their
babies to homeopaths for vaccine advice. They were exploring whether homeopaths
were one of the sources of misinformation scaring concerned parents away from
vaccines. (Note: This article is not about the […]

Read the full story

Posted in Alternative Medicine, British Columbia, Conspiracy Theories, Health,
Ontario, Pseudoscience, Vaccines3 Comments

There’s Nothing Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula

There’s Nothing Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula

29 July 2014 by Gem Newman

This is a guest post by Laura Creek Newman, RD, critically examining health
claims about infant formula made by Meghan Telpner, “Nutritionista”, in her
recent article What’s Lurking In That Baby Formula? I am going to preface this
with my background. I am a registered dietitian practicing for four years,
largely in all areas of […]

Read the full story

Posted in Diet and Nutrition, Featured, Guest PostComments Off

Write Canadian MPs to bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada

Write Canadian MPs to bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada

24 May 2014 by Gem Newman

The fine folks at AllTrials have an important reminder for Canadians who are
concerned about clinical trial transparency, and it’s time-sensitive! We have
just heard that we have a chance to improve clinical trial transparency in
Canada. Bill C-17 or “Vanessa’s Law” is being considered this Tuesday and
there’s a chance to get clinical trial […]

Read the full story

Posted in Canada, Featured, Health Canada Approves...Comments Off

Lisa Posard and Mark Huckaby

New Film Fights Vaccine Hesitancy

01 May 2014 by Michael Kruse

Fear sells. Parents are set up to respond to fear-based propaganda quite
handily: a new baby in the house puts everyone on alert, like having a delicate
glass globe balanced on a knife’s edge, ready to fall at the mere hint of a
breeze.  The information war over vaccination is an obvious reflection of this
[…]

Read the full story

Posted in Alternative Medicine, Conspiracy Theories, Featured, VaccinesComments
Off

Homeopaths are not Medical Experts

Homeopaths are not Medical Experts

14 April 2014 by John Underhay

The CBC recently aired a “National Check Up” health panel segment ostensibly to
discuss the current state of medical research. The panel, led by Peter
Mansbridge, consisted of  internal medicine specialist Dr. Ali Zentner; Dr.
Danielle Martin from Women’s College Hospital in Toronto; and alternative
medicine expert Bryce Wylde. Wylde is no stranger to those of […]

Read the full story

Posted in Canada, Featured, Health, Medicinal Advertising6 Comments

Naturopath Education: Still Replete With Bollocks

Naturopath Education: Still Replete With Bollocks

14 April 2014 by Erik Davis

Naturopaths are allowed to call themselves doctors in Ontario, placing them
alongside Physicians, Dentists, Psychologists, Optometrists, and (regrettably)
Chiropractors as a statutorily-legitimized and protected class of healthcare
provider. When someone is given the right to call themselves a doctor, we
expect a very high level of medical training and expertise. So it’s fair to ask
just […]

Read the full story

Posted in Alternative Medicine, Featured, Health Policy, Medicine, Ontario,
Skepticism7 Comments

Health Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce

Health Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce

09 April 2014 by Kim Hebert

Another foreign government report has been released concluding that homeopathy
is worthless. The UK government [pdf] concluded that homeopathy was no better
than placebo. The Swiss even threw them a bone and lowered the standard of
evidence for the review and came to the same conclusion. Now the Australian
government [pdf] has completed its review […]

Read the full story

Posted in Alt-Med or Alt-Menace?, Alternative Medicine, Featured, Health,
Health Canada Approves..., Health Policy, Skepticism3 Comments

Autism “Awareness”

Autism “Awareness”

07 April 2014 by Kim Hebert

Chili’s (a restaurant chain, for those who aren’t already familiar with their
earworm baby back ribs song) came under fire this weekend for a promotion in
which they would donate a percentage of money from purchases today (7 April
2014) to an autism charity called the National Autism Association.
Unfortunately for Chili’s awareness campaign, they […]

Read the full story

Posted in Featured, Health, VaccinesComments Off

Royal Society of Canada and Safety Code 6

Royal Society of Canada and Safety Code 6

05 April 2014 by Michael Kruse

This week, the Royal Society of Canada released a report by their Expert Panel
on Safety Code 6.  Safety Code 6 is the Health Canada standard that sets
recommended exposure limits for radio-frequencies. The last update was in 2013,
and Health Canada wanted the RSC’s advice on the updates to make sure they were
up […]

Read the full story

Posted in Canada, Health Policy, Media11 Comments

Update on Cefaly

Update on Cefaly

18 March 2014 by John Underhay

In 2011, I wrote an evaluation of  a migraine treatment product that was just
beginning to move across the Atlantic from Europe. Cefaly is a headband that
delivers electrical stimulation externally to the major occipital
and transgeminal nerves. The idea is that transcutaneous nerve stimulation can
have similar results reported for more invasive treatments. However even the
careful placement […]

Read the full story

Posted in Featured, Health, Medical Conditions, Medicinal Advertising5 Comments

Older Entries >>


  • Most Popular
  • Recent Comments
  • Tag Cloud

  • Royal Society of Canada and Safety Code 6 Royal Society of Canada and
    Safety Code 6
  • Naturopath Education: Still Replete With Bollocks Naturopath Education:
    Still Replete With Bollocks
  • Homeopaths are not Medical Experts Homeopaths are not Medical Experts
  • Update on Cefaly Update on Cefaly
  • Does Dr. Gifford-Jones Understand Science? Does Dr. Gifford-Jones
    Understand Science?

  • Homeopaths Respond to CBC Marketplace Homeopaths Respond to CBC Marketplace
  • There’s Nothing Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula There’s Nothing
    Sinister Lurking in That Baby Formula
  • Write Canadian MPs to bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada Write
    Canadian MPs to bring Clinical Trial Transparency to Canada
  • Lisa Posard and Mark Huckaby New Film Fights Vaccine Hesitancy
  • Homeopaths are not Medical Experts Homeopaths are not Medical Experts
  • Naturopath Education: Still Replete With Bollocks Naturopath Education:
    Still Replete With Bollocks
  • Health Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce Health
    Canada – It’s Far Past Time to Put a Stop to the NHPD Farce
  • Autism “Awareness” Autism “Awareness”
  • Royal Society of Canada and Safety Code 6 Royal Society of Canada and
    Safety Code 6
  • Update on Cefaly Update on Cefaly

  • [9945] Travis: Frightening, but completely predictable responses ...
  • [39fb] Brian Hearst: I think they ought to also target "holistic nutrit...
  • [39fb] Brian Hearst: Next ,they should target "holistic nutritionists"....
  • [dc10] John Underhay: No I do not suffer from migraines, although I do h...
  • [a881] Heather: I read your original article, and skimmed this one...

#ten23 #vaxfax 2012 acupuncture alternative medicine Andrew Wakefield astrology
autism Bryce Wylde cancer CBC Marketplace cell phone cell phones CFI Deepak
Chopra EMF Ethan Clow Fluoridation health canada History homeopathy liberation
therapy Magda Havas magical thinking ms multiple sclerosis natural natural
health products natural health products directorate naturopath naturopathy nhpd
Pseudoscience radiation Radio Freethinker regulation Rodney Palmer Science
SkeptiCamp Skepticism Statistics vaccines Vancouver Wi-Fi WiFi

RSS Feed

Subscribe

Upcoming Events

Suggest an Event

Skeptic North in the Media

  • [2011-07-27] Elizabeth May’s wireless problem
  • [2010-08-18] Steve Thoms: WiFi won’t make your head explode
  • [2010-08-06] Naturopathic doctor to offer subsidized care for those in need
  • [2010-07-07] Health ads misleading, watchdog says
  • [2010-05-28] Who's Killing Our Babies

View all


Affiliated Sites

  • Science-Based Pharmacy
    What’s the best detox or cleanse?

 

  • The Germ Guy: Confessions of a Mercurial Microbiologist
    Antibiotic Resistance and Rethinking The Name “Superbug”

 

  • The Ottawa Skeptics
    Skepticamp Ottawa 2015

  • Science-Based Medicine
    Taxpayers Fund Scientology Research on Gulf War Veterans

  • Science-Based Therapy
    Homeopaths Respond to CBC Marketplace

 

  • Radio Freethinker
    Prairie Correspondent – Good neighbours

 

  • Oot and Aboot with Some Canadian Skeptic
    St. Patrick's Day: When We Brag About Racism!

 

(C) 2016 Skeptic North.
