The official site of the Merseyside Skeptics Society
The Merseyside Skeptics Society

  • Home
  • Skeptics in the Pub
  • Podcasts
  • About
  • Contact

Skeptics with a K

Skeptics with a K

Skeptics with a K is the official podcast of the Merseyside Skeptics Society.
Each episode features Mike, Marsh and Alice chatting about stuff that interests
them, often with a skeptical angle.

Produced by Mike Hall, presented by Mike Hall, Michael Marshall and Alice
Howarth.

Subscribe via RSS | Subscribe via iTunes

InKredulous

InKredulous

InKredulous is the skeptical, satirical, comedy panel show from the Merseyside
Skeptics Society. The smartest, funniest and fastest skeptics around are
invited to take part… and decline. So we make do with any old idiot with a copy
of Skype.

Produced and presented by Andy Wilson.

Subscribe via RSS | Subscribe via iTunes

Be Reasonable

Be Reasonable

Be Reasonable is the monthly interview show which talks to people who believe
ideas contrary to the mainstream scientific and skeptical worldview. Be
Reasonable is about approaching subjects with respect and an open mind,
engaging with people of differing viewpoints in an environment where debate is
polite and good-natured, yet robust and intellectually rigorous.

Produced and presented by Michael Marshall.

Subscribe via RSS | Subscribe via iTunes

Skeptics with a K: Episode #164

Posted by Mike in Podcast, Skeptics with a K on January 14th, 2016

Fire in Dubai, scalar energy, herpes simplex, and laminine supplements. Plus
blacksmiths, St Bernadette, and Killer Daltons. Well heeled and well bred, it’s
Skeptics with a K. And apologies for the poor sound quality. Again.

Support the MSS, our work, and all of our podcasts by making a monthly
contribution via Patreon.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:10:20 — 28.3MB)

5 Comments

Skeptics with a K: Episode #163

Posted by Mike in Podcast, Skeptics with a K on December 17th, 2015

In this ridiculous and overlong episode of Skeptics with a K, Mike, Marsh, and
Alice are joined by special guest host Laurie from the Merseyside Skeptics
Society to talk about what happened at the public homeopathy consultation by
Liverpool Clinical Commissioning Group.

Add your voice to the consultation process at http://
www.liverpooltalkshealth.info/homeopathy.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:37:36 — 39.2MB)

12 Comments

Be Reasonable: Episode #034 – Ian Clark

Posted by Mike in Be Reasonable, Podcast on December 8th, 2015

Ian Clark is an author and ESP researcher whose book ‘4.26am’ documents his
experiences with sleep paralysis and why he believes human beings can
communicate over thousands of miles via electrical signals transmitted by the
heart.

Support the MSS, our work, and all of our podcasts by making a monthly
contribution via Patreon.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 35:09 — 14.1MB)

10 Comments

Skeptics with a K: Episode #162

Posted by Mike in Podcast, Skeptics with a K on December 3rd, 2015

Allergies, magnets, negative ions, and bad bacteria. Plus infra-red photons,
ketosis, and dreamy bollocks. Drinking anything handed to us, it’s Skeptics
with a K.

Have your say on the Liverpool Homeopathy consultation at
www.liverpooltalkshealth.info/homeopathy. All contributions welcomed (even
those outside of Liverpool: simply skip the questions that are
Liverpool-specific, they are non-essential).

Support the show and Merseyside Skeptics by donating via Patreon: http://
patreon.com/merseyskeptics

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:02:32 — 25.2MB)

7 Comments

InKredulous: Episode #037

Posted by Mike in InKredulous, Podcast on November 23rd, 2015

Episode 37 of our satirical comedy podcast.

Your host is Andy Wilson (@InKredulosi) of the Merseyside Skeptics Society and
co-organiser of QED conference.

My guests were chock full of content so this is a BUMPER episode! And look out
for the Easter Egg at the end where I realigned something from the show.

Appearing this time are:

  • Michael “Marsh” Marshall of Skeptics with a K, Be Reasonable and the Good
    Thinking Society (@MrMMarsh)
  • Hayley Stevens of ghostgeek.co.uk, podcaster and ghost hunter (
    @HayleyStevens)
  • George Hrab, enigmatic and shaven host of the Geologic Podcast and many
    other wonderful achievements including his TEDx talk (@GeorgeHrab)

As ever, thanks for listening and for all the lovely comments.

Support the MSS, our work and all of our podcasts by making a monthly
contribution via Patreon.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:40:15 — 46.0MB)

8 Comments

Skeptics with a K: Episode #161

Posted by Mike in Podcast, Skeptics with a K on November 19th, 2015

Listener questions, more about homeopathy, and Marsh on the TV, Plus empathy,
cheese twists, losing your shit, and skeptic fatigue. Looking a shambles, it’s
Skeptics with a K.

Support the show and Merseyside Skeptics by donating via Patreon: http://
patreon.com/merseyskeptics

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:28:40 — 35.6MB)

6 Comments

Skeptics with a K: Episode #160

Posted by Mike in Podcast, Skeptics with a K on November 5th, 2015

Bacon, sausages, plutonium, and HUMAN DNA. Plus sexy drivers, rude commuters,
boring dieters, and insuring your shoes. With issues not related to ketchup,
mustard or relish… it’s Skeptics with a K!

Support the MSS, our work and all of our podcasts by making a monthly
contribution via Patreon.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:11:16 — 28.7MB)

1 Comment

InKredulous: Episode #035.5

Posted by Mike in InKredulous, Podcast on November 4th, 2015

Sometimes we have a little material that couldn’t make it to the regular
episode for some reason.  Usually editorial, sometimes time and sometimes the
round was funny but the questions were badly written… ahem!

So here we have a few outtakes and a spare round from the recording of episode
35, Appearing this time are:

  • Eli Bosnick of The Scathing Atheist podcast and leader of the Magnets, a
    secretive and sinister magic group based in New York (@elibosnick)
  • Michael Marshall (Marsh) of Skeptics With a K, Be Reasonable and The Good
    Thinking Society (@MrMMarsh)
  • Dr*T former blogger at Thinking Is Dangerous blog and fine guest on many
    podcasts (@Dr_star_T)

As ever, thanks for listening and for all the lovely comments.

Support the MSS, our work and all of our podcasts by making a monthly
contribution via Patreon.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 34:39 — 15.9MB)

2 Comments

Be Reasonable: Episode #033 – Andy Thomas

Posted by Mike in Be Reasonable, Podcast on November 2nd, 2015

Andy Thomas is an author and conspiracy theorist whose book The Truth Agenda
and Conspiracies explores a range of conspiracy theories and the areas of their
overlap.

Support the MSS, our work and all of our podcasts by making a monthly
contribution via Patreon.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 34:21 — 13.8MB)

1 Comment

Skeptics with a K: Episode #159

Posted by Mike in Podcast, Skeptics with a K on October 22nd, 2015

Coca-cola, spice cake, nail polish, and Schedule 1 of the National Health
Service (General Medical Services Contracts) (Prescription of Drugs etc.)
Regulations 2004. Plus tales from Florida, tales from Italy, Alice getting
drunk, and Back to the Future Day. It’s a ridiculous, overlong, and unedited
episode of Skeptics with a K. We’re sorry.

Play

Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:32:19 — 37.1MB)

8 Comments

<< Older Entries

  • You are currently browsing the archives for the Podcast category.

  • Upcoming Events

     
    [12541089_9]
    Merseyside Skeptics Board Meetings
    February 4, 2016 . 19:00 . 20:00
    Dr. Duncan's
    Everyone is welcome, though only board members may vote
     
    [12400554_9]
    Skeptics in the Pub Social
    February 4, 2016 . 20:00 . 22:30
    Dr. Duncan's
    Join us for good times and good conversation at Dr Duncan's in Liverpool
    City Centre. Don't be shy, come along and say hello!
     
    [1005517_92]
    Meirion Jones: How to Make $100 Million with a Bogus Bomb Detector
    (Skeptics in the Pub)
    February 18, 2016 . 20:00 . 22:30
    The Vine, Liverpool
    He’s jailed for 10 years now but how did a British conman from Liverpool
    sell bogus bomb detectors to Iraq for $85 million? A lack of skepticism
    cost the lives of an estimated 2,000 people in Baghdad. Meirion Jones
    tells, with the help of video clips and secret recordings, how Jim
    McCormick and his chums worked the scam around the world and how
    whistleblowers and a Newsnight team exposed the scandal. This is about
    multi-million-dollar bribes in Baghdad, and UK PLC turning a blind eye to
    boost exports, but this is also about the lethal consequences of not basing
    policy on evidence. Meirion will demonstrate two real bogus bomb detectors
    as sold by the hoaxers for up to $40,000 each and show you how to make one
    that works every bit as well for less than a pound.

    Meirion Jones was a BBC producer who is in the unusual position of winning
    the 2013 Scoop of the Year award for a programme which was never broadcast
    - his exposure of Jimmy Savile as a paedophile. He also won the Daniel
    Pearl International Award for Investigative Journalism in 2010 for his
    reports on toxic waste dumping by Trafigura in Africa. He has exposed
    everything from the fixing of the 2000 US election, to how Britain helped
    Israel get the atom bomb, from corrupt politicians to the affair of Mark
    Stone and the undercover cops, as well as homeopaths and healers.

    Our speaker events have wheelchair access, via a portable ramp which can be
    installed on-demand. If possible, please let us know you’re coming through
    contact@merseysideskeptics.org.uk so we can make sure the ramp is ready.
     
    [12400917_9]
    Merseyside Skeptics Board Meetings
    March 3, 2016 . 19:00 . 22:00
    Dr. Duncan's
    Everyone is welcome, though only board members may vote
     
    [12507216_9]
    Skeptics in the Pub Social
    March 3, 2016 . 20:00 . 22:30
    Dr. Duncan's
    Join us for good times and good conversation at Dr Duncan's in Liverpool
    City Centre. Don't be shy, come along and say hello!
  • Get Updates from MSS

    [Subscribe]

    We won't spam you, or sell your details to anyone. You can unsubscribe at
    any time.

    [                    ]
  • MSS on the Web

      □ Bad PR
      □ Facebook
      □ Inkredulous Fan Page
      □ Merchandise
      □ Skeptics with a K fan page
      □ The 10:23 Campaign
      □ Twitter
  • Skeptical Grassroots

      □ Cafe Scientifique
      □ Greater Manchester Skeptics
      □ Guerrilla Skepticism
      □ Liverpool Humanists
      □ Liverpool Scibar
  • Archives

      □ January 2016
      □ December 2015
      □ November 2015
      □ October 2015
      □ September 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ July 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
      □ April 2015
      □ March 2015
      □ February 2015
      □ January 2015
      □ December 2014
      □ November 2014
      □ October 2014
      □ September 2014
      □ August 2014
      □ July 2014
      □ June 2014
      □ May 2014
      □ April 2014
      □ March 2014
      □ February 2014
      □ January 2014
      □ December 2013
      □ November 2013
      □ October 2013
      □ September 2013
      □ August 2013
      □ July 2013
      □ June 2013
      □ May 2013
      □ April 2013
      □ March 2013
      □ February 2013
      □ January 2013
      □ December 2012
      □ November 2012
      □ October 2012
      □ September 2012
      □ August 2012
      □ July 2012
      □ June 2012
      □ May 2012
      □ April 2012
      □ March 2012
      □ February 2012
      □ January 2012
      □ December 2011
      □ November 2011
      □ October 2011
      □ September 2011
      □ August 2011
      □ July 2011
      □ June 2011
      □ May 2011
      □ April 2011
      □ March 2011
      □ February 2011
      □ January 2011
      □ December 2010
      □ November 2010
      □ October 2010
      □ September 2010
      □ August 2010
      □ July 2010
      □ June 2010
      □ May 2010
      □ April 2010
      □ March 2010
      □ February 2010
      □ January 2010
      □ December 2009
      □ November 2009
      □ October 2009
      □ September 2009
      □ August 2009
      □ July 2009
      □ June 2009
      □ May 2009

Fusion theme by digitalnature | powered by WordPress
Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS) ^

All content is copyright (C) The Merseyside Skeptics Society (except where
otherwise noted)
and is available under a Creative Commons License (CC-BY 4.0)

