                          Equal Time For Freethought
               Tune in, Pay it Forward, and Question Everything!
                                       
                                     • Home
                             • Show Blog and Podcast
                           • ETFF Frappr Listener Map

                                   RSS FEED
                        [                    ] [Search]
                                     Home
                    Jun 23rd, 2002 by admin | Comments Off

                                 Next on ETFF…

                       Saturday, January 23, 2:00 PM EST

                           Michael Shermer: Skeptic

     From a 10-step “Baloney Detection” guide to investigations into alien
abductions, 9/11 conspiracy theories,  Creationism, therapeutic magnetism, and
 Bigfoot, Dr. Michael Shermer has made it his life’s work to think critically
  about — well — everything! His new book, Skeptic, presents readers with the
 tools necessary to do the same concerning a variety of innocent but misguided
            assumptions, baloney, bunkum, balderdash, and bullsh*t.

  Host Matthew LaClair interviews Dr. Shermer, founding publisher of Skeptic
    Magazine, founder of the Skeptics Society, and author of over 15 books
   including Why Darwin Matters, The Believing Brain, The Moral Arc, and the
  subject of our discussion, Skeptic: Viewing the World with a Rational Eye.

In addition to Dr. Shermer’s books and magazine, he is also a monthly columnist
 for Scientific American, a regular contributor to Time.com and a Presidential
                         Fellow at Chapman University.
                                        

              …Tune in, Pay it Forward, and Question Everything!

                              Previously on ETFF…

  ‘Identity and Mental Health in a Sociopathic Society’ w/ Charles Derber and
                                Paul Verhaeghe

The social sciences have taught us that, as the 1960s saying goes, the personal
    IS political (and, of course, vice versa). One of the themes of my own
  interviews has been to connect the dots between the psychological health of
individuals in society with the sociological health of the communities we live
                                      in.

   We’ve talked with evolutionary biologists, evolutionary anthropologists,
sociologists, psychologists, political theorists and even neuroscientists about
what sort of creatures human be ings are, how we behave when we have our basic
   and developmental needs, and how we can understand the clearly unhealthy
      societies we find planet-wide, including here in the United States.

 Today we will continue the exploration of where humanity is today, socially,
and where we might like to see it change…and how. Our special guests this time
around will be with sociologist Charles Derber and psychoanalyst Paul Verhaeghe
                                       .

                             Listen to Audio Here!

                    [WBAI-Bandanna-2015-Turquoise1-300x30]

                  ETFF Presents: The Bunny vs The Son of God!

                             Listen to Audio Here!

                           ========================

                             ETFF Talks w/ Santa!

                             Listen to Audio Here!

                           ========================

                           The Humanist Interviews…

Equal Time for Freethought’s exec. producer, Barry F. Seidman, had the honor of
being the first person interviewed for blogger “Skepoet” for his new series on
    humanism.  Skepoet’s blog, ‘At Crossroads of Critical Thinking and the
   Humanities,’ contains essays and links about Education, Environmentalism,
 Humanism, Philosophy, Politics, Science & Skepticism.  The Seidman interview
                              can be found here!

                   Barry F. Seidman interviews Meco Monardo!

       Disclaimer: Yes, we know this has nothing to do with Freethought…

The artist who mastered the genre of “symphonic disco” goes by the name of Meco
Monardo. “MECO” recorded over 15 albums, mostly from 1977 till 1985, as well as
  a host of singles some of which were not accompanied by full LPs. MECO did
  experiment from time to time with original work, but the musical canvas on
 which he arranged the many marriages of symphony music and disco included the
 wonderful music from films such as the Star Wars series, Close Encounters of
  the Third Kind, Superman, The Black Hole, Raiders of the Lost Ark, American
        Werewolf of London, The Wizard of Oz and of course, Star Trek.

 MECO’s full name is Domenico Monardo. He was born in Pennsyvania. His father
played the valve trombone in a small Italian band, and through him Meco got his
    first musical education. Meco wanted to play the drums, but his father
convinced him that the trombone was the right instrument, and at nine that was
the instrument which he was to stay with, however, for Meco the slide trombone
 was his choice. He joined the high school band while still attending grammar
school. At 17 he won a scholarship to the Eastman School of Music in Rochester,
 New York, which provided him with a solid classical and jazz music education.
There, together with his two friends Chuck Mangione and Ron Carter, he started
  the Eastman School of Music Jazz Band. Originally not inclined towards pop
     music, Meco’s heart changed when he heard Petula Clark’s “Downtown”.

   He began doing arrangements, for example the horn section on Tommy James’
 “Crystal Blue Persuasion.” In an interview with DiscoMusic.com Meco explains
that he is probably the only person who has played a jazz trombone solo on any
pop record the last 50 years. This happened on Diana Ross’ 1980 album Diana, on
the song, “I’m Coming Out.” Around 1973 Meco, Tony Bongiovi and a third person
 formed the production company Disco Corporation of America, and from 1974 to
 1976 Meco worked as a record producer. The team of Meco, Bongiovi, Jay Ellis
and Harold Wheeler produced the 1974 Gloria Gaynor hit “Never Can Say Goodbye”
                     and Carol Douglas’ “Doctor’s Orders.”

  [audio_mp3_]  Meco Interview [44:40m]: Play Now | Play in Popup | Download

                               The ETFF Mission…

  To explore and represent an evidence-based world view, thereby providing a
 forum for social change based on secular humanism, scientific naturalism, and
                              healthy skepticism.

WBAI 99.5 FM Radio broadcasts Equal Time for Freethought each Saturday at 3:00
      PM. Shows beginning at another time will be noted in the schedule.

   Equal time is sorely needed! Just as WBAI stands in a proud tradition of
 progressive dissent from the mainstream corporate political system, this show
  stands in dissent from the mainstream society, which is dominated today by
   supernaturalism and religious or “faith-based” views. In fact, many of us
believe that a vital part of achieving social progress will be freeing humanity
                  from superstition and supernatural beliefs.

 We also feel that being evidence-based implies our advocating for a proactive
  planetary humanism rather than merely articulating what we don’t profess to
   believe. This means that on Equal Time for Freethought, we explore what a
 humanist future society might look like via addressing not only secularism or
 atheism, but also naturalism, spirituality, society, politics, economics, and
                               human potential.

                 To pledge during fund drives: (212) 209-2950
                To call in to speak on the air: (212) 209-2900
                            Email: ETFF2009@aol.com

                      Who is Equal Time for Freethought?
                                       
              Producers/Hosts:  Barry F. Seidman / Arnell Dowret
                                       
    Barry has worked as a humanist/Freethought community leader and events
  coordinator for the Council for Secular Humanism and the Center for Inquiry
  (2000-2006). Barry’s writing has been published in Free Inquiry, Philosophy
    Now, The Skeptic UK, The New Humanist, the Daily Record of New Jersey,
 Biotechnology News, Oncology.com, The Sciences, Skeptical Inquirer and EXIT,
 and he is co-editor of the anthology, Toward a New Political Humanism. He is
   working on a new book on how to get to a healthy global society based on
                         interviews conducted on ETFF.

Arnell is a writer, radio host, and activist in the humanist community.  He is
a contributing author to the book, Toward A New Political Humanism, and to the
book, The Myth of Free Will.  He developed “Secular Connections” an alternative
 experimental workshop originally offered by Center for Inquiry in New Jersey.
     He is working on a book about Scientific Naturalism, Determinism, and
                              Progressive Change.

 Special Guest Hosts: Matthew LaClair, Ava Vardiman, Xaquri Rzetelny & Michael
                                    O’Neil

 Matthew graduated with a BA in Culture and Media Studies from the New School
   and then received an MA in Science Journalism from Columbia University’s
  Graduate School of Journalism.  His involvement in the media world began in
  high school, when he challenged his U.S. History teacher for preaching his
religious beliefs during class time.  The following year, he worked to correct
 an inaccurate and biased AP American Government textbook.  As an advocate for
  accuracy, he appeared on and in numerous media outlets such as The New York
Times, Anderson Cooper 360 on CNN, and Brian Lehrer on NPR, delivered addresses
     around the country, published an op-ed in the Los Angeles Times, and
continually worked toward providing quality education to students in my school
                            and around the country.

                    Ava is a student at The New School… TBC

Xaquri is a lifelong science enthusiast who loves explaining science as much as
 learning it.  He is currently doing both writing for the online magazine, Ars
  Technica. He also writes “The Lex Files” series of articles on the Superman
     Homepage, where he examines the science of Superman from Lex Luthor’s
perspective. Xaq graduated from Rutgers University, where he studied journalism
                                  & physics.

   Michael works as a website builder/IT, is a long time radio host, and an
activist who has worked on behalf of The Church of Stop Shopping, the NY State
                           Green Party, and others.

                        Founder:  Dorothy “Sara” Klein

                           Posted in | Comments Off

                             Comments are closed.

                                       • 
                                   **Support ETFF!**

                            ☆ **Tell WBAI You Support ETFF**
                                  ☆ ETFF You Tube Page!
                                       • 
                                    Friends Of ETFF

                    ☆ * Equal Time for Freethought's FACEBOOK Page!!!
                                   ☆ American Atheists
                             ☆ American Humanist Association
                                 ☆ Anarcho-Transhumanism
                                     ☆ Brecht Forum
               ☆ Center for Inquiry: Secular Humanism and a Whole Lot More
                                 ☆ Center for Naturalism
                               ☆ Church of Stop Shopping!
                          ☆ Cosmos Studio – Carl Sagan’s Legacy
                                ☆ Darwin Day Celebration
                       ☆ Ethical Culture Society of Bergen County
                        ☆ Ethical Culture Society of Essex County
                           ☆ Freedom from Religion Foundation
                               ☆ Freethought on About.com
                         ☆ Gay and Lesbian Humanist Association
                          ☆ Humanist Association of Connecticut
                     ☆ Humanist Association of Greater Philadelphia
                       ☆ Humanist Society of Metropolitan New York
                    ☆ HumanLight: Celebrating Humanity, Reason & Hope
                                  ☆ Inclusive Democracy
                    ☆ Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies
                        ☆ Institute for Science and Human Values
                                ☆ New Jersey Peace Action
                             ☆ New York Academy of Sciences
                                ☆ New York City Atheists
                                 ☆ New York Peace Action
                         ☆ New York Society for Ethical Culture
                                  ☆ Rationally Speaking
                                  ☆ Reasonable New York
                              ☆ Richard Dawkins Foundation
                         ☆ Secular Humanist Society of New York
                                   ☆ The New Humanists
                             ☆ United for Peace and Justice
                                 ☆ World Future Society
                                ☆ World Science Festival!
                            ☆ World Transhumanist Association
                                       • 
                              Non-Religious Celebrations?

                          ☆ Barry Klassel; Certified Celebrant!
                 ☆ Frank D. Fagnano & other Humanist Society Celebrants!
                                       • 
                                       Archives

                                     ☆ January 2016
                                     ☆ December 2015
                                     ☆ November 2015
                                     ☆ October 2015
                                    ☆ September 2015
                                      ☆ August 2015
                                       ☆ June 2015
                                       ☆ May 2015
                                      ☆ April 2015
                                      ☆ March 2015
                                     ☆ February 2015
                                     ☆ January 2015
                                     ☆ December 2014
                                     ☆ November 2014
                                     ☆ October 2014
                                    ☆ September 2014
                                      ☆ August 2014
                                       ☆ July 2014
                                       ☆ June 2014
                                       ☆ May 2014
                                      ☆ April 2014
                                      ☆ March 2014
                                     ☆ February 2014
                                     ☆ January 2014
                                     ☆ December 2013
                                     ☆ November 2013
                                     ☆ October 2013
                                    ☆ September 2013
                                      ☆ August 2013
                                       ☆ July 2013
                                       ☆ June 2013
                                       ☆ May 2013
                                      ☆ April 2013
                                      ☆ March 2013
                                     ☆ February 2013
                                     ☆ January 2013
                                     ☆ December 2012
                                     ☆ November 2012
                                     ☆ October 2012
                                    ☆ September 2012
                                      ☆ August 2012
                                       ☆ July 2012
                                       ☆ June 2012
                                       ☆ May 2012
                                      ☆ April 2012
                                      ☆ March 2012
                                     ☆ February 2012
                                     ☆ January 2012
                                     ☆ December 2011
                                     ☆ November 2011
                                     ☆ October 2011
                                    ☆ September 2011
                                      ☆ August 2011
                                       ☆ July 2011
                                       ☆ June 2011
                                       ☆ May 2011
                                      ☆ April 2011
                                      ☆ March 2011
                                     ☆ February 2011
                                     ☆ January 2011
                                     ☆ December 2010
                                     ☆ November 2010
                                     ☆ October 2010
                                    ☆ September 2010
                                      ☆ August 2010
                                       ☆ July 2010
                                       ☆ June 2010
                                       ☆ May 2010
                                      ☆ April 2010
                                      ☆ March 2010
                                     ☆ February 2010
                                     ☆ January 2010
                                     ☆ December 2009
                                     ☆ November 2009
                                     ☆ October 2009
                                    ☆ September 2009
                                      ☆ August 2009
                                       ☆ July 2009
                                       ☆ June 2009
                                       ☆ May 2009
                                      ☆ April 2009
                                      ☆ March 2009
                                     ☆ February 2009
                                     ☆ January 2009
                                     ☆ December 2008
                                     ☆ November 2008
                                     ☆ October 2008
                                    ☆ September 2008
                                      ☆ August 2008
                                       ☆ July 2008
                                       ☆ June 2008
                                       ☆ May 2008
                                      ☆ April 2008
                                      ☆ March 2008
                                     ☆ February 2008
                                     ☆ January 2008
                                     ☆ December 2007
                                     ☆ November 2007
                                     ☆ October 2007
                                    ☆ September 2007
                                      ☆ August 2007
                                       ☆ July 2007
                                       ☆ June 2007
                                       ☆ May 2007
                                      ☆ April 2007
                                      ☆ March 2007
                                     ☆ February 2007
                                     ☆ January 2007
                                     ☆ December 2006
                                     ☆ November 2006
                                     ☆ October 2006
                                    ☆ September 2006
                                      ☆ August 2006
                                       ☆ July 2006
                                       ☆ June 2006
                                       ☆ May 2006
                                      ☆ April 2006
                                      ☆ March 2006
                                     ☆ February 2006
                                     ☆ January 2006
                                     ☆ December 2005
                                     ☆ November 2005
                                     ☆ October 2005
                                    ☆ September 2005
                                      ☆ August 2005
                                       ☆ July 2005
                                       ☆ June 2005
                                       ☆ May 2005
                                      ☆ April 2005
                                      ☆ March 2005
                                     ☆ February 2005
                                     ☆ January 2005
                                     ☆ December 2004
                                     ☆ November 2004
                                     ☆ October 2004
                                    ☆ September 2004
                                      ☆ August 2004
                                       ☆ July 2004
                                       ☆ June 2004
                                       ☆ May 2004
                                      ☆ April 2004
                                      ☆ March 2004
                                     ☆ February 2004
                                     ☆ January 2004
                                     ☆ December 2003
                                     ☆ November 2003
                                     ☆ October 2003
                                    ☆ September 2003
                                      ☆ August 2003
                                       ☆ July 2003
                                       ☆ June 2003
                                       ☆ May 2003
                                      ☆ April 2003
                                      ☆ March 2003
                                     ☆ February 2003
                                     ☆ January 2003
                                     ☆ December 2002
                                     ☆ November 2002
                                     ☆ October 2002
                                    ☆ September 2002
                                      ☆ August 2002
                                       ☆ July 2002
                                       ☆ June 2002
                                       • 
                                  Under Construction!

         □ What you see here is the beginning of a work in progress. We look
        forward to bringing you a comprehensive archive of ETFF broadcasts and
            commentaries, as well as a place to strengthen the humanist and
         freethinking community. We appreciate your patience as we upload our
                    extensive archives to this exciting new venue.

    Wordpress Theme designed by KomiradEqual Time For Freethought (C) 2016
