  •   
  •   

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

More Options

Subscribe to SI

 

Donate Today

Search CSI:

E-Mail Updates

Enter your email address for updates from CFI

[Email Address       ] [Go]
Like Skeptical Inquirer!

Tweets by @SkeptInquiry

Point of Inquiry Radio Show and Podcast

The Committee for Skeptical Inquiry

The mission of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry is to promote scientific
inquiry, critical investigation, and the use of reason in examining
controversial and extraordinary claims.

Keep Health Care Safe and Secular: A Center for Inquiry Campaign

The FDA is giving serious consideration to our petition to require that all
over-the-counter homeopathic drugs meet the standards of effectiveness
applicable to non-homeopathic drugs. Read the letter from the FDA >>

Skeptical Inquirer Volume 40.1 —
January/February 2016

Skeptical Inquirer Volume 40.1 Cover

Articles by:

  • Benjamin Radford
  • Elizabeth Loftus
  • Joe Nickell
  • Kendrick Frazier
  • Matt Nisbet

  • Robert Sheaffer
  • Susan Gerbic
  • and more!

Latest Articles & News

Screening Tests and Primum non nocere

Screening Tests and Primum non nocere

by Harriet Hall

Special Articles . SkepDoc's Corner

January 22, 2016

Nonmaleficence says don’t harm the patient; beneficence says help the patient.
There’s a trade-off, since almost every treatment carries some small degree of
risk. Not treating may do more harm than treating.

The Search for Negative Evidence

by Joe Nickell and James McGaha

Skeptical Inquirer . Volume 39.6

By their nature, paranormal claims depend not on positive but negative
evidence, by which proponents attempt to use mysteries (“the unexplained”) to
support their beliefs. In contrast, scientists seek to use positive evidence to
solve mysteries.

Grief Vampires Don’t Come Out Only at Night

Grief Vampires Don’t Come Out Only at Night

by Susan Gerbic

Special Articles

January 20, 2016

These people come and go fame-wise. His flame might be bright for the moment,
but it could quickly fade into obscurity, or it could ignite a fire that will
burn the memories and interrupt and corrupt the grieving process for parents
who go to him in desperation and loss.

We Are All GMOs

by Matan Shelomi

Skeptical Inquirer . Volume 39.6

Increasing evidence that gene transfer across huge evolutionary distances is
common in animals, including humans, provides a strong retort to the claim that
GMOs are “unnatural.”

The Bermuda Triangle Mystery Delusion: Looking Back after Forty Years

The Bermuda Triangle Mystery Delusion: Looking Back after Forty Years

by Larry Kusche

Skeptical Inquirer . Volume 39.6

The man who solved the Bermuda Triangle “mystery” looks back after four decades
on his investigations into the missing flight that started it all and the
shoddy research, gullibility, and distortions that created this mystery.

A Protopian View of Moral Progress

A Protopian View of Moral Progress

by Daniel Grassam

Skeptical Inquirer . Review . Volume 39.6

A Review of The Moral Arc: How Science and Reason Lead Humanity Toward Truth,
Justice, and Freedom by Michael Shermer

Read More: Special Articles | Skeptical Inquirer | Skeptical Briefs | CSI News
| Press Releases

CSI logo

About

  • About CSI
  • Contact
  • Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal
    (CSICOP)
  • CSI Fellows and Staff
  • Donate to CSI
  • Educating Youth
  • Policy on Hostile Conduct/Harassment at Conferences
  • Privacy Policy
  • The Pantheon of Skeptics

Resources

  • CSI Store
  • Skeptical Organizations in the United States
  • International Network of Skeptical Organizations
  • Centers for Inquiry
  • Free ‘I Doubt It’ Decal
  • CFI Forums

Publications

  • Subscribe
  • Skeptical Inquirer
      □ Archive
      □ Latest Issue
  • Skeptical Briefs
      □ Latest Issue
  • Special Articles
  • Guide for Authors

News

  • Events
  • Press Coverage
  • Press Releases
  • Recent Announcements

Content copyright CSI or the respective copyright holders. Do not redistribute
without obtaining permission. Articles, reports, reviews, and letters published
on the CSICOP.org website represent the views and work of individual authors.
Their publication does not necessarily constitute and endorsement by CSI or its
members unless so stated. Thanks to the ESO for the image of the Helix Nebula,
also NASA, ESA and the Hubble Heritage Team for the image of NGC 3808B (ARP 87)
.

