ReapSowRadio

ReapSowRadio

Search
Primary Menu Skip to content

  • Sample Page

Search for: [Search]
ReapSowRadio- This is what you get when you have freedom of religion….

December 4, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

 

rsrfire

This week on ReapSowRadio-

  • Terry doesn’t show up
  • The Seattle Chapter of The Satanic Temple supports high school students
    religious rights
  • Brian overtalks everyone on the show
  • Man gets burned up in chimney
  • Luciferian Church gets harassed by Christians.
  • Spiked baseball bats in San Francisco

http://archive.org/download/rsr11-29-15/rsr11-29-15.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

Reapsowradio- Rape Fantasy Island

November 22, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

On this podcast we discuss-

  • Sexism
  • Racism
  • Antagonism
  • Penis size
  • Rape fantasy

http://archive.org/download/rsr11-22-15/rsr11-22-15.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

ReapSowRadio- Returns

November 15, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

reapsowradio

It’s the return of ReapSowRadio.

Slang terms for vagina, Sit-Coms, and of course….. randomness. Some things
never change

http://archive.org/download/rsr11-15-15/rsr11-15-15.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

Reap PadenReapsowradio

ReapSowRadio-Special #4- Answer to Tom Rasponik

February 20, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

[11004926_1]

Yet another answer in defense to the mouth that never stops. Keep in mind this
is an ANSWER to Tom. If he hadn’t said anything this recording wouldn’t exist.

http://archive.org/download/rsrtrollgod/rsrtrollgod.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

dr tom erik raspotniktemples of satanTom Raspotnik

ReapSowRadio-SPECIAL #3 Answer to Tom Raspotnik

February 14, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

 

tom raspotnikTom Raspotnik again steps in the wrong yard. This time he tries to
roll up on Renee…and once again he fails. Poor Tom
http://archive.org/download/TomRjerk2/TomRjerk2.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

dr tom erik raspotnikgm blackwoodTom erik Raspotnik

ReapSowRadio- SPECIAL #2 Answer to Tom Raspotnik

February 12, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

oompatom

 

Tom Raspotnik has once again posted lies and engaged in character
assassination.  It has been made clear to Tom all of his falsehoods will be
addressed and that is what you will hear on this episode.

http://archive.org/download/TomRDanielPadenFailedPodcaster/
Tom_Raspotnik_jerk.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

dr Tom Raspotnikgm blackwoodthe temples of satanTom erik RaspotnikTom Raspotnik
voiceoftheisticsatanism.com

ReapSowRadio- SPECIAL- Reply to Tom Raspotnik

February 12, 2015 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

reapsowradiologo4

Tom Raspotnik insists on continuing to spread rhetoric, start trouble, and
still has false allegations posted on the internet . He uses Sound Cloud as a
tool to harm reputations and promote disinformation.

Tom Raspotnik insists on continuing to spread rhetoric, start trouble, and
still has false allegations posted on the internet . He uses Sound Cloud as a
tool to harm reputations and promote disinformation.

Here is the latest answer to Tom

http://archive.org/download/ourlord_darwin_yahoo_Tom3/Tom3.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

cindy raspotnikdr Tom Raspotnikmeg prentissthe temples of satanTom erik
RaspotnikTom Raspotnik

ReapSowRadio- Satanic Temple Interview

December 6, 2013 ourlord_darwin@yahoo.com Leave a comment

rsrsmokesatanictemple

Reap and Al take advantage of an opportunity to speak with Lucien Greaves from 
The Satanic Temple about their offer to donate a public monument to Oklahoma’s
Capitol Preservation Commission for display upon Oklahoma City’s capitol
grounds.

We also talk about some of the more common misconceptions about Satanists and
the ways it differs from other religions. You might think you know about
Satanism you could be wrong, many people are. Lucien explains the morals and
principals that make up this often misunderstood religion.

http://archive.org/download/Satanictempleinterview/satanictempleinterview.mp3

Podcast: Play in new window | Download

Lucien GreavesmonumentOklahoma State Capitolpodcastsatanismsatanistten
commandmentsthe satanic temple

Helping You Help Yourself

  • RSS - Posts
  • RSS - Comments

[INS::INS]
Search for: [Search]
Recent Posts

  • ReapSowRadio- This is what you get when you have freedom of religion….
  • Reapsowradio- Rape Fantasy Island
  • ReapSowRadio- Returns
  • ReapSowRadio-Special #4- Answer to Tom Rasponik
  • ReapSowRadio-SPECIAL #3 Answer to Tom Raspotnik

Recent Comments

Archives

  • December 2015
  • November 2015
  • February 2015
  • December 2013

Categories

  • Uncategorized

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Proudly powered by WordPress
