Sam Harris  

  • Blog

    Latest

    Sam Harris: The ‘Salon’ Interview

      □ Atheism
      □ Ethics
      □ News
      □ Politics
      □ Religion
      □ Islam
      □ Terrorism
      □ War
    Photo
    Continue | All Posts

    Recent Posts

     1. 10/28 A War of Ideas
     2. 10/20 Welcome to the End of My Patience
     3. 10/16 Talking about Islamism with Lawrence O’Donnell
     4. 09/28 Never Stop Lying
     5. 09/28 Rethinking ‘Hitler’s Pope’
     6. 09/15 Islam & the Future of Tolerance
     7. 09/15 We Need to Talk About Islam’s Jihadism Problem
     8. 09/11 Clearing the Air with Dave Rubin

    Blog Categories

      □ Announcements
      □ Atheism
      □ Book News
      □ Consciousness
      □ Debates
      □ Economics
      □ Ethics
      □ Free Will
      □ Health
      □ Martial Arts
      □ Meditation
      □ Neuroscience
      □ News
      □ Philosophy
      □ Physics
      □ Politics
      □ Psychedelics
      □ Publishing
      □ Religion
      □ Christianity
      □ Islam
      □ Science
      □ Self
      □ Self-Defense
      □ Spirituality
      □ Terrorism
      □ Violence
      □ War
  • Podcast

    Latest

    The Logic of Violence A Conversation with Jocko Willink

      □ Ethics
      □ Politics
      □ Self-Defense
      □ Terrorism
      □ Violence
      □ War
    Photo

    In this episode of the Waking Up podcast, Sam Harris speaks with Jocko
    Willink about U.S. foreign policy, war, human evil, and other topics.

    Continue | All Posts

    Recent Posts

     1. 01/14 Behind the Gun
     2. 01/04 Ask Me Anything #2
     3. 12/21 Islam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue
     4. 12/16 Surviving the Cosmos
     5. 11/22 On the Maintenance of Civilization
     6. 11/15 Still Sleepwalking Toward Armageddon
     7. 10/08 The Riddle of the Gun (Revisited)
     8. 09/23 The Multiverse & You (& You & You & You…)

    Subscribe to the Podcast

      □ SoundCloud
      □ iTunes
      □ YouTube
      □ Stitcher
      □ RSS
  • Books

    Books

      □ Islam and the Future of Tolerance Book Cover

        Islam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue

        October 2015 | By Sam Harris and Maajid Nawaz

      □ Waking Up Book Cover

        Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion

        September 2014

      □ Lying Book Cover

        Lying

        November 2013

      □ Free Will Book Cover

        Free Will

        March 2012

      □ The Moral Landscape Book Cover

        The Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values

        October 2010

      □ Letter to a Christian Nation Book Cover

        Letter to a Christian Nation

        September 2006

      □ The End Of Faith Book Cover

        The End Of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason

        August 2004

    Chapter Contributions

      □ What to Think About Machines That Think
      □ This Idea Must Die
      □ What Should We Be Worried About?
      □ Thinking
      □ This Will Make You Smarter
      □ Is the Internet Changing the Way You Think?
      □ This Will Change Everything
      □ What Have You Changed Your Mind About?
      □ What Are You Optimistic About?
      □ The Portable Atheist
      □ What We Believe But Cannot Prove
      □ What Is Your Dangerous Idea?
      □ Mindful Politics
  • Recommended
  • Media
  • About
  • Contact
      □ Contact the Author
      □ Contact the Publicist
      □ Contact the Lecture Agent
      □ Contact the Webmaster
  • Forum

Books By Sam Harris

  • Islam and the Future of Tolerance Cover
  • Waking Up Cover
  • Lying Cover
  • Free Will Cover
  • The Moral Landscape Cover
  • Letter to a Christian Nation Cover
  • The End Of Faith Cover

Waking Up Video

Buy the full video of Sam Harris' Waking Up talk $4.99 stream + download
anytime

In the fall of 2014, Sam Harris staged a series of live events — in Los
Angeles, New York, and San Francisco—to coincide with the publication of his
book, Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion. In these talks,
Harris discussed a range of experiences that have traditionally been considered
“spiritual”—in particular the phenomenon of self-transcendence. Although such
experiences tell us nothing about the origins of the cosmos, they confirm some
well-established truths about the human mind: Our conventional sense of self is
an illusion; positive emotions, such as compassion and serenity, are teachable
skills; and the way we think can profoundly influence our lives and the lives
of others.

This video consists of a one-hour lecture and an hour of Q&A.

[article-ima]

Meditation App

Latest Blog Post

Sam Harris: The ‘Salon’ Interview

  • Atheism
  • Ethics
  • News
  • Politics
  • Religion
  • Islam
  • Terrorism
  • War

Photo

I consider Salon to be among the worst offenders of the new pseudo-journalism,
and I have long maintained a personal boycott of the website. I ask my
publishers to ignore any requests from its editors for interviews or for review
copies of my books. And on the rare occasions that Salon publishes good
work—the articles of Jeffrey Tayler stand out—I decline to forward the links on
social media. My reason is simple: Despite the work of a few blameless writers,
Salon has become a cesspool of lies and moral confusion.

Continue
 

Latest Podcast

The Logic of Violence A Conversation with Jocko Willink

  • Ethics
  • Politics
  • Self-Defense
  • Terrorism
  • Violence
  • War

Photo

In this episode of the Waking Up podcast, Sam Harris speaks with Jocko Willink
about U.S. foreign policy, war, human evil, and other topics.

Continue
 
Get Sam's Newsletter [                    ]
Follow Sam

Follow @samharrisorg
Donate

Your contributions help keep my essays, interviews, and podcasts freely
available.

Sam Harris

(C) Copyright 2016

free web stats
