Foundation Beyond Belief

  • My fbb
  • Login
  • Give!

[                    ]
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

[Go]
[                    ]
 

Humanity at Work · Compassionate Humanists supporting charities worldwide

  • Inside FBB
      □ 
          ☆ current news
          ☆ our Staff
          ☆ the Board
          ☆ Speakers Bureau
          ☆ FBB Jobs
          ☆ FAQs
          ☆ Contact
          ☆ FBBCon 2015
              ○ Speakers
              ○ Schedule
              ○ Code of Conduct
              ○ Registration
          ☆ About us
              ○ Mission / Accomplishments
              ○ Testimonials
              ○ Marketing Information
              ○ Financial Information
          ☆ My FBB
              ○ Dashboard
              ○ Manage Donations
              ○ Settings
              ○ Request a tax receipt
              ○ Donation FAQs
  • Humanist Giving
      □ 
          ☆ Become a member
              ○ Monthly Giving
              ○ Foundation Fifty
              ○ Gift Membership
          ☆ Support FBB
              ○ One Time Donation
              ○ Mail In Donation
              ○ Planned Giving
          ☆ Beneficiaries
              ○ NOW SUPPORTING
              ○ NOMINATE A CHARITY
              ○ Beneficiary archive
              ○ Challenge the Gap
          ☆ Small Grant Awardees
          ☆ Compassionate Impact Grant Program
          ☆ Humanist Disaster Recovery Drive
              ○ Nominate a Disaster
              ○ Contact Humanist Disaster Recovery
          ☆ Store
          ☆ Contact Humanist Giving
  • HUMANIST VOLUNTEERING
      □ 
          ☆ Group Volunteering
          ☆ Beyond Belief Network
              ○ About BBN
              ○ Join BBN
              ○ BBN Events
              ○ BBN Levels
              ○ Humanist Service Awards
              ○ Freethought Cons
              ○ BBN resources
          ☆ BBN Teams
              ○ Team profiles
              ○ Latest News
              ○ Tell BBN about your event
              ○ Make A Team Donation
              ○ Apply to join
              ○ Contact BBN
          ☆ Week of Action
              ○ Week of Action 2015 Events
              ○ Submit an Event for 2015
          ☆ LLS Light The Night
              ○ lls team page
              ○ lls team donation
              ○ registration guide
          ☆ Individual Volunteering
          ☆ Humanist Disaster Recovery Network
          ☆ Humanist Disaster Recovery Teams
              ○ About HDR Teams
              ○ Join HDR Teams or update your details
          ☆ Contact Humanist Disaster Recovery
          ☆ About HSC
          ☆ Current Project
          ☆ History
          ☆ Apply to HSC
          ☆ Updates

  • 
    Humanist Disaster Recovery Teams

    A Humanist Disaster Recovery Team deployed in January to rebuild homes in
    Columbia, SC damaged by flooding during Hurricane Joaquin.

    Learn More...
  • 
    Starfish

    Teaching the female leaders of tomorrow in Guatemala's Mayan community.

    Learn More...
  • 
    SquareOne Villages

    Creating communities of tiny houses for people in need of housing.

    Learn More...
  • 
    Lighthawk

    Taking scientific research to the skies.

    Learn More...
  • 
    Dudley Street Neighborhood Initiative

    Community organizing, activism, and empowerment in the Dorchester
    and Roxbury neighborhoods of Boston.

    Learn More...
  • 
    Buddhist Global Relief

    Compassionate action providing basic needs for life.

    Learn More...

  • Q1 Donations $377

    Total to Date $176,783

    # of Members 2,618

  • Q1 Donations $1,850

    Total to Date $1,960,998

    # of Members 1,984

  • Q1 Donations $1,850

    Total to Date $1,960,998

    # of Members 1,984

  • Q1 Donations $1,850

    Total to Date $1,960,998

    # of Members 1,984

  • Q1 Donations $1,850

    Total to Date $1,960,998

    # of Members 1,984

  • Q1 Donations $1,850

    Total to Date $1,960,998

    # of Members 1,984

Join
[$5 a month   ]
Inside FBB: Latest News

visit section ►

Collaboration between beneficiaries leverages impact

21 Jan

While the grant awards Foundation Beyond Belief makes to our beneficiaries are
the primary purpose in our Humanist Giving program; behind the scenes
networking is also a goal between FBB and our beneficiaries, and in some cases,
the collaboration leverages an additional impact along with our donation,
continuing on like a ripple in a pond. For example, ConTextos, our Q1 2015
Education beneficiary, has had a working relationship with EcoViva, our Q4 2015
Natural World beneficiary, in El Salvador since 2013. ConTextos worked with
EcoViva's key local partner "Asociacion Mangle" to support schools and literacy
programs in Jiquilisco and the Bajo Lempa, the geographic area where EcoViva
works to strengthen environmental policy, rural development, and youth
engagement. Last year marked ...

By Kate Simonson, Communications Manager

Share Post

  •  
  •  
  •  

Read More

January Team of the Month: Omaha Atheists

21 Jan

[OA9]

Congratulations to Beyond Belief Network’s January Team of the Month: Omaha
Atheists! Based in Omaha, NE, the team was chosen for this honor because of
their strong spirit of volunteerism and progressive service events in their
community. Omaha Atheists ended 2015 as a Level 1 team and was previously
honored as December 2015’s Picture of the Month. Members of Omaha Atheists
prepare a monthly meal for Youth Emergency Service of Omaha, which provides
support and resources to homeless and at-risk youth. Team members shop for
ingredients, prepare a meal and deliver it to the organization. Omaha Atheists
also participate in Adopt-a-Highway and remove trash along their adopted
stretch of highway. Their last cleanup was in November. Omaha Atheists also
support ...

By Elizabeth Minutello, Beyond Belief Network Assistant

Share Post

  •  
  •  
  •  

Read More

January Picture of the Month

19 Jan

[CCA3]

Congratulations to Corpus Christi Atheists in Corpus Christi, TX! This Beyond
Belief Network team submitted January’s Picture of the Month. Team members
assisted in collecting Christmas trees for recycling. The trees were made into
mulch that was free to city residents. Corpus Christi Atheists finished 2015 as
a Level 3 team. Picture of the Month recognizes teams who submit great pictures
with their event reports.

By Elizabeth Minutello, Beyond Belief Network Assistant

Share Post

  •  
  •  
  •  

Read More

What people are saying about FBB

The best part [of FBB membership] is sharing the experience with our children.
We want them to help us figure out what our monthly contribution should be and
where it should go. Read more...

— Raising Three Thinkers

Interesting approach…Join up! Read more...

— PZ Myers, Pharyngula

I scrolled down the list of contribution levels until I hit one that hurts,
just a little. But it's a good kind of hurt. Read more...

— Peter Nothnagle, member

More

Donate by shopping FBB on

Zazzle Amazon

Humanist Giving

visit section ►

Now Supporting

  • Challenge the Gap [dummy-tran] Buddhist Global Relief 
    buddhistglobalrelief.org/
  • Human Rights [dummy-tran] SquareOne Villages www.squareonevillages.org/
  • Education [dummy-tran] Starfish starfish-impact.org
  • Poverty and Health [dummy-tran] Dudley Street Neighborhood Ini... 
    www.dsni.org/
  • The Natural World [dummy-tran] Lighthawk www.lighthawk.org/

Why am I seeing the same beneficiary multiple times? Click here to learn
more...

Recent posts about humanist giving

While the grant awards Foundation Beyond Belief makes to our beneficiaries are
the primary purpose in our Humanist Giving program; behind the scenes
networking is. Read more...

By Kate Simonson, Communications Manager

At the end of the 2015 fundraising year, non-profit organizations have all
experienced the energy and expenditures it takes to raise money.  This
quarter’s five. Read more...

By AJ Chalom, Humanist Giving Program Coordinator

More

Join today

A community of compassionate humanists supporting outstanding charities
worldwide. Join today for as little as $5 a month.

Learn more...

Q2 Donations: $0

Total to Date: $1,960,998

Join
[$5 a month   ]
Humanist Volunteering

visit section ►
 

  • [dummy-tran] Beyond Belief Network Teams

    Welcome to Beyond Belief Network, a collective of over 100 freethought
    organizations putting compassionate humanis...

  • [dummy-tran] LLS Light the Night Foundation Beyond Belief (FBB) is proud to
    continue hosting an international Light The Night Walk Team to benefit The
    Le...

 

  • [dummy-tran] Humanist Service Corps

    HSC partners with local organizations around the world to protect
    human rights and the environment through gr...

 
Foundation Beyond Belief

211 Baker Rd #531
Barker TX 77413

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

FBB Australia

  • Inside FBB

      □ Current news
      □ About Us
      □ Mission / Accomplishments
      □ Testimonials
      □ Our Staff
      □ The Board
      □ FBB Jobs
      □ FAQs
      □ Marketing Information
      □ Financial Information
      □ Request tax receipt
      □ Contact
      □ My FBB
  • Humanist Giving

      □ Become a member
      □ Support FBB
      □ Beneficiaries
      □ Small Grant Awardees
      □ Humanist Disaster Recovery Drive
      □ Store
  • Humanist Volunteering

      □ Beyond Belief Network
      □ LLS Light The Night
      □ Humanist Disaster Recovery Teams

(C) Copyright Foundation Beyond Belief

  • Privacy policy
  • Terms of use
  • Credits

Login

Username [                    ]
Password [                    ]
         * forgot password?
           • [Submit]
           • 

Forgot password

E-mail [                    ]
         • [Send]
         • 

Reset password email has been sent.
Please check your inbox.

Ok

Cancel Membership

Are you sure that you want to cancel your giving to Foundation Beyond Belief?
[YES] [NO]

Currently Giving

Updated Giving [$5 a month   ]
[Update]

