  • Home
  • About The Author – Steven Novella, MD
  • Topic Suggestions

[NLBannerCr]

Jan 22 2016

Answering Questions About GMOs

Published by Steven Novella under General Science
Comments: 14

CitrusGreening1I hadn’t planned on writing about GMOs again today, but I
received an e-mail from a listener of the SGU which nicely represents common
misconceptions that many people have about genetically modified organisms and
farming in general. These are common anti-GMO talking points, which is why they
are so widespread.

That even thoughtful skeptics have these concerns is testimony to the
successful misinformation campaign waged by the anti-GMO movement, which is
largely the organic lobby and some in the environmental movement, such as
Greenpeace.

The strategy here is also clear – whenever you deal with one misconception
about GMOs, opponents just slide over to another point which becomes the “real”
reason they are against GMOs. The experience is identical to arguing with those
who reject the claims of anthropogenic global warming, when forced to give
ground on one factual claim (OK, maybe the Earth is warming), they just retreat
to another (but do we know that this is bad?).

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 14

Jan 21 2016

Grief Vampires

Published by Steven Novella under Paranormal
Comments: 37

Words are important. They definitely shape how we think about things, and are
critical for affecting public opinion. I feel that as scientists and skeptics
we are often on the losing side of the branding wars, probably because of our
pesky attachment to technical accuracy, transparency, and honesty. Or maybe we
just stink at marketing.

There is one turn of phrase, however, that I think perfectly captures a
situation and is useful for communicating the skeptical position – “grief
vampires.”

Grief vampires are self-proclaimed psychics or mediums who prey upon the loved
ones of those who have recently died. They exploit the grieving for their own
monetary gain.

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 37

Jan 19 2016

Charlie Sheen’s HIV Quack

Published by Steven Novella under Science and Medicine
Comments: 128

charlie-sheen-dr-oz-show-regular-guest-ppCharlie Sheen is HIV positive. As was
revealed on the Dr. Oz show, when diagnosed his viral load was 4.4 million.
After six months of the a standard anti-HIV cocktail his viral loads were
undetectable.

This does not mean he is HIV negative or free of this virus. As part of the
viral life-cycle it goes into hiding inside of cells. It is undetectable while
hiding, and also cannot be eradicated by medications. This is a major challenge
to curing HIV, or even pushing the efficacy of our current treatments further.
Researchers are looking into ways to force the virus out of hiding so that
anti-retroviral medications can go to work.

With current anti-HIV treatment someone who is HIV positive can expect to live
an almost normal life expectancy free of any major complications of the disease
and will not go on to develop AIDS from the virus. The big challenge now is to
get this modern medicine to those who are HIV positive in the third world, or
to those who cannot afford it.

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 128

Jan 15 2016

Arctic Humans 45,000 Years Ago

Published by Steven Novella under General Science
Comments: 3

mammothEMBEDThe dating of phenomena in the past, such as the existence of a
specific species of animal or the presence of humans, is always based upon the
earliest and latest evidence discovered so far. When you think about it, it is
obviously very unlikely that we will have discovered the absolute earliest or
latest occurrence of anything in the past.

It it therefore very common for new discoveries of fossils or archaeological
evidence to increase the range of a phenomenon. Date ranges are always
tentative and changing, although new discoveries still often lead to headlines
emphasizing how surprised scientists were at the find.

For example, when did humans first live in the Arctic circle? There are
essentially three types of evidence for a human presence. The first is direct
evidence – human fossils found in the location and dated to a specific time.
The second is human artifacts, stone tools being the most common because they
preserve well and are unambiguous human artifacts. The third is human activity,
such as fire pits or butchered animals.

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 3

Jan 14 2016

Real Scientific Literacy, Part II

Published by Steven Novella under Education,General Science,Skepticism
Comments: 143

Dr_Nick_Simpsons-e1310873491586Continued from Part I

5) How to Analyze a Scientific Study

I don’t expect a non-scientist, or even a scientist far outside their area of
expertise, to be able to do a detailed analysis of the strengths and weaknesses
of a study. That is what peer-review is for. However, there are some basic
rules of thumb that could give even a lay person a rough idea how seriously
they should take a study. Always ask at least the following questions:

Is the study controlled in some way? Was the treatment group compared to a
control group, or was the alleged effect compared to some baseline?

Is the study blinded? Were the primary measurements or assessments performed by
someone who was blinded to whether or not the alleged effect is supposed to be
present?

Are the outcomes being measured subjective or objective? How are they being
measured? What do they really mean?

How large is the study? Studies with small numbers of subjects or measurements
(less than 50 per group is a good rule of thumb) are considered small and
unreliable.

Is the study an observation or an experiment? Are they just looking for some
correlation  (in which it is difficult to make statements about cause and
effect), or are they controlling for variables and isolating the one factor of
interest?

What is the reaction of the scientific community to the study? Are experts
generally critical or excited about the results? Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 143

Jan 12 2016

Real Scientific Literacy

Published by Steven Novella under General Science,Logic/Philosophy,Skepticism
Comments: 17

miracleequationWhat does it mean to be scientifically literate? There is no
completely objective answer to this question, it can be defined in multiple
ways and the bar can be set anywhere along a spectrum.

Many tests of scientific literacy essentially ask a series of scientific facts
– they are tests of factual knowledge, but not scientific thinking. This
glaring deficit has been pointed out many times before, and was so again in a
recent editorial by Danielle Teller. She writes:

    There are a number of problems with teaching science as a collection of
    facts. First, facts change. Before oxygen was discovered, the theoretical
    existence of phlogiston made sense. For a brief, heady moment in 1989, it
    looked like cold fusion (paywall) was going to change the world.

I agree. A true measure of scientific literacy should be a combination of
facts, concepts, and process. Facts are still important. Concepts without facts
are hollow, and facts without concepts are meaningless. Both need to be
understood in the context of the process that led us to our current
conclusions.

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 17

Jan 11 2016

Should There Be Mandatory GMO Labeling?

Published by Steven Novella under General Science,Skepticism
Comments: 123

GMO labelCampbell Soup has just announced that they are switching sides in the
GMO labeling debate – they are now in favor of federal mandatory labeling for
all products that contain genetically modified organisms. This has perhaps
opened up a new chapter in the debate.

In response Mark Lynas, a journalist who, after researching the topic, is
staunchly pro-GMO, has responded with an interesting essay agreeing with this
move by Campbell.

Let me state up front that I think the answer to mandatory labeling is no, but
let me also walk you through my thinking on this complex issue.

The Scientific Case Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 123

Jan 08 2016

What Is Bayes Theorem?

Published by Steven Novella under Logic/Philosophy,Skepticism
Comments: 56

I have written a little about Bayes Theorem, mainly on Science-Based Medicine,
which is a statistical method for analyzing data. A recent Scientific American
column has some interesting things to say about it as well. I thought a brief
overview would be helpful for those who are not sure what it is.

This statistical method is named for Thomas Bayes who first formulated the
basic process, which is this: begin with an estimate of the probability that
any claim, belief, hypothesis is true, then look at any new data and update the
probability given the new data.

If this sounds simple and intuitive, it’s because it is. Psychologists have
found that people innately take a Bayesian approach to knowledge. We tend to
increment our beliefs, updating them as new information comes in.

Of course, this is only true when we do not have an emotional investment in one
conclusion or narrative, in which case we jealously defend our beliefs even in
the face of overwhelming new evidence. Absent a significant bias, we are
natural Bayesians.

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 56

Jan 07 2016

When Will Yellowstone Blow?

Published by Steven Novella under Skepticism
Comments: 5

yellowstone-echinus-geyser-550It can be difficult to know what the optimal
attitude is to have toward rare or unlikely events that would be catastrophic.
How much should we worry about a large asteroid striking the earth? It could
happen any time, but statistically is unlikely anytime soon (although is almost
inevitable over the long term, meaning millions of years).

There are other rare but devastating natural phenomena. Phil Plait wrote about
all the things that can bring Death from the Skies, including asteroids but
also gamma ray bursts and other astronomical phenomena.

Today, however, we’re talking about death from below, specifically volcanic
eruptions, more specifically supervolcanoes, and even more specifically the
Yellowstone supervolcano. Recent news reports are breathlessly stating that
scientists warn Yellowstone could blow in the next 70 years. Well, not so fast.
Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 5

Jan 05 2016

Creationists and Academic Freedom

Published by Steven Novella under Creationism/ID
Comments: 103

berlin specimenThis is old news, but attention is being freshly paid to the
issue of creationists using academic freedom as an excuse to teach creationism
in public schools, in violation of the First Amendment. This attention is due
to an anonymous whistle-blower from the Discovery Institute confirming what
everyone already knew.

According to reports:

    “Critical thinking, critical analysis, teach the controversy, academic
    freedom—these are words that stand for legitimate pedagogical approaches
    and doctrines in the fields of public education and public education
    policy,” said the former Discovery Institute employee. “That is why DI
    co-opts them. DI hollows these words out and fills them with their own
    purposes; it then passes them off to the public and to government as
    secular, pedagogically appropriate, and religiously neutral.”

Whether or not you believe this anonymous source, the DiscoTute has objectively
caused a lot of mischief. They authored model anti-evolution laws that have
been used in various states, including successfully in Louisiana.

Continue Reading >>

    

Comments: 103

                                    Next >>

  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Answering Questions About GMOs
      □ Grief Vampires
      □ Charlie Sheen’s HIV Quack
      □ Arctic Humans 45,000 Years Ago
      □ Real Scientific Literacy, Part II
      □ Real Scientific Literacy
      □ Should There Be Mandatory GMO Labeling?
  • Recent Comments

      □ Willy on Answering Questions About GMOs
      □ daedalus2u on Charlie Sheen’s HIV Quack
      □ hardnose on Charlie Sheen’s HIV Quack
      □ BBBlue on Answering Questions About GMOs
      □ hardnose on Charlie Sheen’s HIV Quack
      □ Willy on Answering Questions About GMOs
      □ mumadadd on Charlie Sheen’s HIV Quack
  • Affiliated Sites

      □ James Randi Educational Foundation
      □ Society for Science Based Medicine
      □ The New England Skeptical Society
      □ The Skeptics Guide to the Universe Weekly Science Podcast
  • General Science Blogs

      □ Aetiology
      □ Scientific American Blog
  • Skeptical Blogs

      □ Bad Astronomy
      □ Denialism
      □ Respectful Insolence
      □ Science Based Medicine
      □ SGU Blog – The Rogues Gallery
      □ Skepchick Blog
      □ SkepticBlog
  • Skeptical Merchandise

      □ Medical Myths by Dr. Novella
      □ NeuroLogica Blog on Kindle
      □ SBM e-Books on Amazon
      □ SBM e-Books on iTunes
      □ SBM e-Books on Nook
      □ SGU Store
      □ Your Deceptive Mind by Dr. Novella
  • ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
    [MedicalMyths]
    24 Lecture Course on Medical Myths by Dr. Novella from the Teaching
    Company.
    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
  • Openlab 2007
  • The 2008 Weblog Awards
  • Top neuroscience blogs award

    Top neuroscience blogs
            Top rationality blogs

  • The 2010 HAL Medical Blog Awards
  • [amazon_kin]
    Neurologica is now available on Kindle

  • Pages

      □ About The Author – Steven Novella, MD
          ☆ Privacy Policy
          ☆ Website Terms of Use
      □ Topic Suggestions
  • Categories

      □ Astronomy
      □ autism
      □ Blogroll
      □ Conspiracy Theories
      □ Creationism/ID
      □ Culture and Society
      □ Education
      □ Evolution
      □ General
      □ General Science
      □ History of Science/Medicine
      □ Legal Issues
      □ Logic/Philosophy
      □ Neuroscience
      □ Paranormal
      □ Pseudoscience
      □ Religion/Miracles
      □ Science and Medicine
      □ Science and the Media
      □ Skepticism
      □ Technology
      □ UFO's / Aliens
  • Meta

      □ Register
      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.org
  • Archives

      □ January 2016
      □ December 2015
      □ November 2015
      □ October 2015
      □ September 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ July 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
      □ April 2015
      □ March 2015
      □ February 2015
      □ January 2015
      □ December 2014
      □ November 2014
      □ October 2014
      □ September 2014
      □ August 2014
      □ July 2014
      □ June 2014
      □ May 2014
      □ April 2014
      □ March 2014
      □ February 2014
      □ January 2014
      □ December 2013
      □ November 2013
      □ October 2013
      □ September 2013
      □ August 2013
      □ July 2013
      □ June 2013
      □ May 2013
      □ April 2013
      □ March 2013
      □ February 2013
      □ January 2013
      □ December 2012
      □ November 2012
      □ October 2012
      □ September 2012
      □ August 2012
      □ July 2012
      □ June 2012
      □ May 2012
      □ April 2012
      □ March 2012
      □ February 2012
      □ January 2012
      □ December 2011
      □ November 2011
      □ October 2011
      □ September 2011
      □ August 2011
      □ July 2011
      □ June 2011
      □ May 2011
      □ April 2011
      □ March 2011
      □ February 2011
      □ January 2011
      □ December 2010
      □ November 2010
      □ October 2010
      □ September 2010
      □ August 2010
      □ July 2010
      □ June 2010
      □ May 2010
      □ April 2010
      □ March 2010
      □ February 2010
      □ January 2010
      □ December 2009
      □ November 2009
      □ October 2009
      □ September 2009
      □ August 2009
      □ July 2009
      □ June 2009
      □ May 2009
      □ April 2009
      □ March 2009
      □ February 2009
      □ January 2009
      □ December 2008
      □ November 2008
      □ October 2008
      □ September 2008
      □ August 2008
      □ July 2008
      □ June 2008
      □ May 2008
      □ April 2008
      □ March 2008
      □ February 2008
      □ January 2008
      □ December 2007
      □ November 2007
      □ October 2007
      □ September 2007
      □ August 2007
      □ July 2007
      □ June 2007
      □ May 2007
      □ April 2007
      □ March 2007
      □ February 2007
      □ January 2007
  • The advertisements below do not necessarily reflect the views of this blog,
    its author, or host.

Site Admin | Free WordPress ThemeNeuroLogica Blog Copyright (C) 2016 All Rights
Reserved .

