Advertisement

[INS::INS]

Science Blogs

Go to [Select Blog...                                     ]
Search National Geographic

Search nationalgeographic.com [                    ] Submit
  • Last 24 Hrs
  • Life Science
  • Physical Science
  • Environment
  • Humanities
  • Education
  • Politics
  • Medicine
  • Brain & Behavior
  • Technology
  • Information Science
  • Jobs

What we're talking about Doctor Dodgy, PhD Saturday, January 23, 2016

Doctor Dodgy, PhD

The University of Wollongong issues a PhD in antivaccine pseudoscience

Respectful Insolence January 13, 2016

I remember my PhD thesis. In particular, I remember the years of work that went
into it. I remember being grilled (with good, constructive intent) by my thesis
committee a couple of times a year as I worked on it. I remember the many, many
hours spend writing it. And, above all, I remember the…

Brian Martin and Judy Wilyman: Promoting antivaccine pseudoscience as “dissent”

Respectful Insolence January 14, 2016

Yesterday, I wrote about what can only be described as an academic travesty.
What riled me up sufficiently to lay a heapin’ helpin’ of not-so-Respectful
Insolence on a graduate student named Judy Wilyman, her PhD thesis advisor
Brian Martin, and the University of Wollongong was the fact that Wilyman is an
antivaccine loon and the…

That’s not a thesis, it’s a junkheap

Pharyngula

Well, cool. You can download Judy Wilyman’s anti-vaccination thesis from the
University of Wollongong and read it yourself. So click, click, wait a second,
and… YAAAARGH! My eyes! I thought the social sciences side of the academic
world would possibly have higher standards for writing than the science side,
but no…it’s awful. This should have…

On Respectful Insolence, Orac calls it an "academic travesty" as a university
awards a woman her PhD for "a collection of antivaccine talking points and
conspiracy theories, tied together with pseudoscience and borderline, if not
outright, germ theory denial." In another post Orac scrutinizes her thesis
advisor, saying his attitude towards science is "postmodernism at its worst"
and "to him all 'dissent' is potentially valid, no matter how pseudoscientific
it is." PZ Myers takes a peek at the thesis, and screams "YAAAARGH! My eyes!"
before concluding "the University of Wollongong should be taking steps to
protect their reputation immediately."

Channel Surfing

rss

Life Science

Life Lines

Beware of freezing hearts

Thirteen-lined ground squirrels (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus) are really cute
when they hibernate (above). During torpor bouts, their body temperature
decreases to a few degrees Celsius and their metabolism drops by as much as 95%
with heart rates ranging from only 3-10 beats per minute. These bouts of torpor
are interrupted by periodic arousals every couple of weeks during which their…

The Pump Handle

Study: Nearly half of U.S. counties now home to ticks that transmit Lyme
disease

It’s been nearly two decades since the last publication of a nationwide survey
on the distribution of blacklegged ticks — the primary transmitters of Lyme
disease. That survey, released in 1998, reported the tick in 30 percent of U.S.
counties. Today, a new study using similar surveillance methods has found the
tick in more than 45 percent of counties.

Pharyngula

Friday Cephalopod: If I had tentacles, maybe my face would be this expressive

rss

Physical Science

Greg Laden's Blog

More’Easter Jonah The Storm Continues: Updates

According to Paul Douglas (pers. com) there is some important news on what
Jonas still has planned. There is likely to be major flooding along the coast
of Cape May, and in some areas of New Jersey there may be coastal flooding
nearly of the magnitude that happened with Superstorm Sandy. So far storm
surges…

Starts With A Bang

Comments of the Week #95: From Gravitational Waves to the Multiverse

“What might we learn from lines of research that are off the beaten track? They
check accepted ideas, always a Good Thing, and there is the chance Nature has
prepared yet another surprise for us.” -Jim Peebles It’s been a huge week here
at Starts With A Bang, and one of our busiest on record. If you thought that
Pluto’s…

Starts With A Bang

Ask Ethan: Is the Universe itself alive? (Synopsis)

“Do not look at stars as bright spots only. Try to take in the vastness of the
universe.” -Maria Mitchell The analogies between small-scale, living things and
large-scale, cosmic entities are abundant: between a neuron and the Universe’s
large-scale structure; between an atom and a solar system; between the stars in
a galaxy and the…

rss

Environment

Life Lines

Beware of freezing hearts

Thirteen-lined ground squirrels (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus) are really cute
when they hibernate (above). During torpor bouts, their body temperature
decreases to a few degrees Celsius and their metabolism drops by as much as 95%
with heart rates ranging from only 3-10 beats per minute. These bouts of torpor
are interrupted by periodic arousals every couple of weeks during which their…

World's Fair

Antarctica: Arrival

Hello again, We’ve been on Mars – er, I mean in Antarctica for 1 week now. It’s
similar to what one might imagine being on Mars is like, but with breathable
air (nice air). The landscape around McMurdo Station is all volcanic rock. Rock
and dirt everywhere. Stand in the middle of McMurdo and spin…

The Pump Handle

Study: Nearly half of U.S. counties now home to ticks that transmit Lyme
disease

It’s been nearly two decades since the last publication of a nationwide survey
on the distribution of blacklegged ticks — the primary transmitters of Lyme
disease. That survey, released in 1998, reported the tick in 30 percent of U.S.
counties. Today, a new study using similar surveillance methods has found the
tick in more than 45 percent of counties.

rss

Humanities

The Pump Handle

Study: Nearly half of U.S. counties now home to ticks that transmit Lyme
disease

It’s been nearly two decades since the last publication of a nationwide survey
on the distribution of blacklegged ticks — the primary transmitters of Lyme
disease. That survey, released in 1998, reported the tick in 30 percent of U.S.
counties. Today, a new study using similar surveillance methods has found the
tick in more than 45 percent of counties.

Uncertain Principles

Quantum Short Fiction, Voting Open Now

The Center for Quantum Technologies is running a “Quantum Shorts” contest,
where they solicited short stories exploring some aspect of quantum physics.
They cut their large number of applicants down to two short-lists of ten, one
for the “Open” category, and one for the “Youth” category. They’ll be giving
out a “People’s Choice Award” based…

EvolutionBlog

The Methodists Reject the Discovery Institute

The United Methodist Church has denied an application from the Discovery
Institute to set up a table at their upcoming general conference. As you can
imagine, the ID folks and their fellow travelers are having a collective freak
out about this. Click here for a representative post about the sheer injustice
of it all. The…

rss

Education

Life Lines

Beware of freezing hearts

Thirteen-lined ground squirrels (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus) are really cute
when they hibernate (above). During torpor bouts, their body temperature
decreases to a few degrees Celsius and their metabolism drops by as much as 95%
with heart rates ranging from only 3-10 beats per minute. These bouts of torpor
are interrupted by periodic arousals every couple of weeks during which their…

World's Fair

Antarctica: Arrival

Hello again, We’ve been on Mars – er, I mean in Antarctica for 1 week now. It’s
similar to what one might imagine being on Mars is like, but with breathable
air (nice air). The landscape around McMurdo Station is all volcanic rock. Rock
and dirt everywhere. Stand in the middle of McMurdo and spin…

Uncertain Principles

Advice to the Past

Over at Scientific American, Amanda Baker has a story about what scientists say
they would tell their younger selves. I reached out to eight of my colleagues
who are currently in STEM fields and asked them a series of questions about
their childhood interests in science, school experiences, and roadblocks that
they faced on their…

rss

Politics

Deltoid

January 2016 Open Thread

Past time for more thread.

Greg Laden's Blog

Dark Money by Jane Mayer

The book is: Dark Money: The Hidden History of the Billionaires Behind the Rise
of the Radical Right. Also by the same author: The Dark Side: The Inside Story
of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals. Here is my
version of recent American political history: Everyone in America knows…

Greg Laden's Blog

Who Will Win The Iowa Caucus?

The answer: One Republican and One Democrat/Independent. The Iowa Caucus is
pretty much up for grabs in both parties. Over recent days, a clear Trump lead
has been erased, and Cruz is now ahead in recent polls. Over roughly the same
period, a clear Clinton lead has been erased, and Sanders is now ahead in…

rss

Medicine

Life Lines

Beware of freezing hearts

Thirteen-lined ground squirrels (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus) are really cute
when they hibernate (above). During torpor bouts, their body temperature
decreases to a few degrees Celsius and their metabolism drops by as much as 95%
with heart rates ranging from only 3-10 beats per minute. These bouts of torpor
are interrupted by periodic arousals every couple of weeks during which their…

Respectful Insolence

The rise of a new grief vampire

I don’t write about psychics that often. Most commonly, when I do, it’s about
psychics making claims that could be construed as medical claims, such as when
America’s Quack, Dr. Mehmet Oz brought psychic scammers like John Edward and
the “Long Island Medium” Theresa Caputo, even going so far as to imply that
psychics can…

Respectful Insolence

Will 2016 be the year when the FDA and FTC finally crack down on homeopathy?

I like to say that homeopathy is The One Quackery To Rule Them All (although of
late I’ve debated whether homeopathy or reiki is the most properly referred to
as that). It’s a strange beast, homeopathy. Its two main “Laws” are so clearly
pseudoscience that you’d think that no one could ever fall for something…

rss

Brain & Behavior

Life Lines

Beware of freezing hearts

Thirteen-lined ground squirrels (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus) are really cute
when they hibernate (above). During torpor bouts, their body temperature
decreases to a few degrees Celsius and their metabolism drops by as much as 95%
with heart rates ranging from only 3-10 beats per minute. These bouts of torpor
are interrupted by periodic arousals every couple of weeks during which their…

Life Lines

Learning new songs

New research shows that premotor neurons are activated in the brains of
adolescent male zebra finches whenever a young bird hears their father (a
tutor) sing. These are the same neurons that are usually activated in
anticipation of movement. What is special about this, is that as the birds
learned new songs or pieces of new songs,…

The Pump Handle

Study: Night shift workers face dangerous risks on the drive home

Scientists are finding that night shift work comes with a range of particular
health risks, from heart disease to diabetes to breast cancer. This month,
another study joined the pack — this one on the risk of traffic crashes among
those who head home from work at sunrise.

rss

Technology

Greg Laden's Blog

What is the best mouse for a Mac, Linux, or Windows?

One mouse to rule them all I had previously reviewed the Logitech Ultrathin
Touch Mouse, suggesting it as a replacement for the Apple Magic Mouse. Now,
I’ve tried it on my Linux machine (don’t know why that took so long). It turns
out to work very well, better than most, possibly all, mice I’ve used.…

Greg Laden's Blog

Command Line Science

A worthy Kickstarter science related project is afoot. Face it. Most science is
done on the command line. When it is not, we call it “science by spreadsheet”
or name it by some other epithet. Much of that is done on Linux or Linux like
computers, but that actually includes Macs, and if you must,…

Uncertain Principles

128/366: Shiny!

It seems appropriate to use a power-of-two day for a new digital device, so
here’s a photo of my new phone: Getting and setting this up took up much of
yesterday. It’s a Droid Turbo, which is basically the Verizon-branded version
of the 2015 equivalent of the Moto X I had previously. Yes, I know,…

rss

Information Science

Greg Laden's Blog

Truth or Truthiness: How does a thoughtful skeptic distinguish?

Truth or Truthiness: Distinguishing Fact from Fiction by Learning to Think Like
a Data Scientist is a new book by Howard Wainer that can serve as a manual for
how to be a good skeptic. Wainer is a statistician, formerly with the famous
Educational Testing Service, and a professor at the Wharton School of the…

Confessions of a Science Librarian

Best Science Books 2015: Gizmodo’s The Science Books We Loved Most in 2015

As you all have no doubt noticed over the years, I love highlighting the best
science books every year via the various end of year lists that newspapers, web
sites, etc. publish. I’ve done it so far in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
and 2014. And here we are in 2015! As in previous…

Confessions of a Science Librarian

Best Science Books 2015: Library Journal Best Books 2015 Core Nonfiction

As you all have no doubt noticed over the years, I love highlighting the best
science books every year via the various end of year lists that newspapers, web
sites, etc. publish. I’ve done it so far in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
and 2014. And here we are in 2015! As in previous…

rss

Jobs

The Pump Handle

Not an “accident”: Kevin Purpura, 39, suffers fatal work-related injury in
Wheeling, WV

This week’s snapshot of just one work-related fatality in the US. This one
occurred on Wednesday, January 15 in Wheeling, WV.

The Pump Handle

Occupational Health News Roundup

The Center for Investigative Reporting exposes discriminatory hiring practices
within the temporary staffing industry; a worker dies in another chemical
facility explosion in Houston; a new Amnesty International report links tech
giants to child labor; and Amazon is cited for failing to report workplace
injuries.

The Pump Handle

Study: Lessons from a successful lockout/tagout intervention could save a
worker’s life

Think about all the objects you use every day that are made with pieces of
metal. Before that object got to you, a worker in the metal manufacturing
industry used a machine to cut, saw, bend and assemble the metal pieces into
the countless products that make our lives easier. But sometimes those machines
break. And when they do, a simple and inexpensive procedure helps ensure both
worker and machine can return safely to the job.

[INS::INS]

Super Photo

[15896007912_eaf802c7f1]

Coniagui Women Pounding Rice by Paul Julien (1938)

In Conversation

"Science claims that human beings are an accidental by-product of millions of
years of vicious evolutionary bloodsport. Christianity claims that we are
created in the image of God by an omnipotent being of perfect goodness. It is
logically possible that those are two sides of the same coin, but they are not
obviously so."

Science and Religion, Again on EvolutionBlog

Insight

[coalinga1-590x393]

"Chevron oil fields and the BrightSource solar plant (photo Gilles Mingasson/
Getty Images)."

Editor’s Picks

An Heraldic Snail
Aardvarchaeology ⋅1/22/2016

Who Will Win The Iowa Caucus?
Greg Laden's Blog ⋅1/22/2016

The Methodists Reject the Discovery Institute
EvolutionBlog ⋅1/22/2016

Will 2016 be the year when the FDA and FTC finally crack down on homeopathy?
Respectful Insolence ⋅1/21/2016

Scientists behaving deviously
Pharyngula ⋅1/20/2016

How To Take a Crap …or The Most Important Parenting Advice I can Give Anyone
Casaubon's Book ⋅1/20/2016

Unmoderated Post on Moderation
A Few Things Ill Considered ⋅1/20/2016

#tweetscience

Tweets by @sciblings

In Conversation II

"One reason that it’s so hard to talk to believers about alternative medicine:
the sharing of alt-med advice is largely a social, friendship-reinforcing
activity. It’s not just irrelevant to believers, but quite rude, to question
the medical efficacy of someone’s advice."

January Pieces Of My Mind #2 on Aardvarchaeology

Super Photo II

[5740471871_c83ff8eec0]

Black Hole's Jets by NASA Goddard

Insight II

[fig-2b_DSC_2044_lores]

"Late-17th century tiled stove found almost complete during recent excavations
in Kalmar."

     

Super Photo III

[14562243201_6cb61b4f21_n]

Crinoid by NOAA Ocean Explorer

In Conversation III

"What came before inflation, then? Did it always exist? Did it have a
beginning? Or did it mark the rebirth of a cosmic cycle? Maddeningly, this
information may forever be inaccessible to us, as the nature of inflation wipes
all this information clean from our visible Universe."

Physicists Must Accept That Some Things Are Unknowable on Starts With a Bang!

Insight III

[CYAleJ0UsAcDcIQ]

"From all the data we’ve collected, this appears to be nothing new: just a
run-of-the-mill fission bomb."

In Conversation IV

"Many phenomena have an underlying basis in chance, and are subsequently shaped
by non-chance processes: you can’t model enzyme kinetics without acknowledging
random molecular interactions given a direction by the laws of thermodynamics,
for instance, or regard evolution without seeing the importance of chance
variation, winnowed by selection."

Everything existing in the universe is the fruit of chance and necessity on
Pharyngula

Insight IV

[conway-castle-k6161-s]

"Important questions are how to identify the functions of buildings and rooms
(possibly changing over time), daily activities, diet and the performances of
the courtly/chivalric lifestyle, all in relation to the various social and
gendered groups who inhabited a castle."

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

(C) 2006-2016 ScienceBlogs LLC. ScienceBlogs is a registered trademark of
ScienceBlogs LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by Seed Media Group, LLC.
[p]
