  • Home
  • About
  • Join Us
  • Propaganda
  • Sightings
  • HateMail
  • Ordinations


                                       

                                   New Posts
                                                                       #General
                                                                 ● 162191 Views
                                                                  ● 82 Comments

                    Georgia Drivers License Discrimination

                Published January 4th, 2016 by Bobby Henderson

license
Christopher Avino wearing a colander in his temporary license photo

More news about Pastafarians wearing colanders in their drivers license photos,
this time in Georgia.

The Dept. of Driver Services refused to issue a permanent license to
Christopher Avino (after issuing a temporary with colander headwear) and asked
him to come back and re-take the photo. More surprising is that their legal
department wrote a letter laying out their reasoning, which includes this line,
“Pastafarian is not actually a religion. Rather it is a philosophy that mocks
religion”.

Here’s the whole letter:

ddsletterthumbnail

Obviously most of us disagree with their view that Pastafarianism exists only
to mock religion (I could not disagree more), but I find it particularly
surprising to read such a statement in a letter written by the DDS General
Counsel. I did not realize the legal departments of small government offices
were empowered to declare what is and what is not a legitimate religion.

And it shouldn’t matter, but I wonder: would this General Counsel happen to be
Christian, and did that have anything to do with the DDS decision to deny the
permanent license?

Christopher wrote a smart and entertaining letter in response to the DDS. The
whole thing can be read here, but in case you do not read it, let me paste here
my favorite part:

    “You mayfind our beliefs to be strange, but as strange as you may feel they
    are, they are still our beliefs. Some may find it strange that Christians
    believe that Jonah spent “3 days in a whale’s belly” according to some
    texts. Some may find it strange that Muslims believe that Muhammad was
    carried to the seven heavens on the back of a winged horse. Some may find
    it strange that Scientologists believe that Xenu, the dictator of the
    Galactic Confederacy brought billions of people to earth in a DC-8-like
    spacecraft, stacked them around volcanoes, and killed them with hydrogen
    bombs. Maybe you, the reader of this letter, do not personally believe that
    Muhammad flew to heaven on a winged horse, but do you question the validity
    of Islam as a religion? “

As frustrating as I find these bureaucratic hurdles, I think overall they end
up helping the Cause, because they bring so much attention to the issues. There
are already volunteers willing to help take up the legal fight, and I’ve read
many messages of support, many from people who are not Pastafarians but who
support us.

Huge thanks to Christopher for spending the time and energy to get into these
issues.

RawStory has a good overview of all that’s happened here.

» Read the full post and discuss

                                #Evangelism #Noodle Love #Secular Vs. Religious
                                                                 ● 205788 Views
                                                                  ● 13 Comments

                    The Lansing capitol display looks great

               Published December 26th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

capitol1

Excellent — the Lansing State Journal made an article about the Flying
Spaghetti Monster Holiday display at the Michigan capitol grounds.

    The tongue-in-cheek church — its pamphlet advertises “flimsy moral
    standards” and a “WAY better” heaven that includes a stripper factory and
    beer volcano — brought its monument to its creator to the statehouse on
    Friday. The monument shows a sort of blob of spaghetti with eyeballs on top
    and giant meatball orbs on either side.

You can read more of the Journal article here. There’s a video and some more
photos as well.

The backstory is that Michigan lawmakers decided to open up the capitol lawn to
everyone (as not to appear to promote Christian displays), and a number of
religious groups (including us) jumped on the opportunity for outreach.

Huge thanks to Chris Beckstrom and the local Pastafarians for organizing the
display and their evangelism efforts (not to mention Chris’s impressive
accordion playing). No doubt passers-by were enchanted, maybe already
considering converting to Pastafarianism.

capitol3

» Read the full post and discuss

                                              #Evangelism #Holiday Celebrations
                                                                 ● 207173 Views
                                                                  ● 15 Comments

                              He watches over us

               Published December 25th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

fire

Sent in by Brendan

Very nice!

» Read the full post and discuss

                                             #Endorsement #General #Noodle Love
                                                                 ● 316372 Views
                                                                 ● 190 Comments

        New Zealand government approves Pastafarian marriage ceremonies

               Published December 15th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

nzsqaure

Good news — New Zealand has approved the Church of FSM to perform marriage
ceremonies.

    The application was approved under a sub-section of the Marriages Act,
    satisfying the registrar-general that the principal object of the
    organisation was to uphold or promote religious beliefs, philosophical or
    humanitarian convictions.

    Posted by Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster – New Zealand.

    Montgomery said the purposes set out by the church were educating and
    training people, particularly atheists and superstitious people, about
    Flying Spaghetti principles and practices.

    Those principles covered human rights, cultural and spiritual diversity,
    ethics, relieving poverty and advancing education.

    “In considering the matter I have referred to the Objects of the Church of
    the Flying Spaghetti Monster, reviewed material available online about this
    organisation and considered other organisations already able to nominate
    marriage celebrants.

    “A review of media and the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster’s
    international website show a consistent presentation of their philosophies.
    While some claim this is a ‘parody organisation’, members have rebutted
    this on a number of occasions.”

You can read more about it here at stuff.co.nz.

I lived in New Zealand for a year in college and it does not surprise me that
the NZ government has publicly acknowledged our legitimacy, both because they
are a progressive open-minded people, and also because of the amount of
drinking that goes on over there.

Unrelated, they have birds that eat cars:

105-0536_IMG

» Read the full post and discuss

                                    #Evangelism #General #Secular Vs. Religious
                                                                 ● 309362 Views
                                                                  ● 73 Comments

                              The war on Holiday

               Published December 14th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

spaghettimanger

This has become my favorite Holiday^[1] tradition: a government institution
hosts a Christian-themed display, then non-Christian groups demand a display as
well, then the Christians who thought a government building was an appropriate
place for a religious display get worked up by the “war on Christmas”.

fsmholidaydisplay

The one in the news this year is a DMV in Florida with a baby Jesus display.
Here’s an article in RawStory talking about it.

And a great quote by a Christian activist:

    “My hope is that the Christ in Christmas is louder than a wood display and
    some figurines,” Pam Olsen, president of the Florida Prayer Network,
    explained to the Miami Herald.

    “I have been pondering this for a while,” Olsen said. “The racial tensions
    and mass murders, the shootings at the Planned Parenthood and in California
    – something is very wrong in our country. We need to step back and say we
    need to stop. Let the sound of the Christ Child bring hope, joy and peace
    instead of dissension.”

I will admit that I have a small (very small) amount of sympathy for the
Christians who get upset that they can’t just put a baby Jesus in the DMV and
keep the “wrong” groups out. I recognize that they are more comfortable in a
world where everyone shares their religious views (or keeps quiet about their
own). I think this is less about promoting Christianity and more like a
nostalgic yearning for simpler times. And I’ve always liked Christmas displays
– even if they’re a little Jesusy – I’ve never found them too bothersome.

That said, once these Christian vs non-Christian display stories hit the news,
I think it does become a highly charged issue, and the Christian warriors come
out speaking loudly about the war on Christmas. This I find ridiculous, and I
am very thankful that we have so many Pastafarians who stand up for our rights.
I can not wait to see the FSM Holiday display this year.

fsmas

[1] A note on Holiday: years ago we noticed there was a shift in the way people
expressed winter greetings — fewer “Merry Christmas’s” and more “happy
holidays”. We concluded that these people were most likely Pastafarians (albeit
many of them in secret) wishing people a happy Holiday – referring to our
winter celebration also known as ChriFSMas.

» Read the full post and discuss

                                                           #Evangelism #General
                                                                 ● 333523 Views
                                                                  ● 36 Comments

                    Send a festive Holiday propaganda card

                Published December 9th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

card1

Good news — I’ve brought back the Holiday e-card machine this year. Some may
remember this — it’s a page where you can send Holiday messages to your friends
and family (it’s free). The cards are delivered by email.

There’s a couple designs and I’ll add some more if people want.

One small request: please use this card machine in good spirits, not as a way
to antagonize people.

Please check it out and let me know what you think. Here’s the link: Holiday
Card Machine.

cards2

» Read the full post and discuss

                                                                       #General
                                                                 ● 626753 Views
                                                                 ● 145 Comments

                Psychology Today says we’re not completely nuts

               Published November 16th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

peace

There’s an interesting article about us at Psychology Today.

Some of this may have been due to timing — first there was the news about
Lindsay Miller’s successful efforts in wearing a Colander in her Massachusetts
license photo, and then shortly after, the terrible news of the Paris terrorist
attacks.

Mr. Noise in his article is looking at our light-hearted activities and
thinking about what, if any, relevance our antics have in more serious matters,
in particular the secular world’s struggle against religious extremism.

    Which brings us back to Miller and her colander. Talking to a television
    reporter with her spaghetti strainer proudly placed upon her head, she may
    not come across to casual observers as reason personified. But first
    impressions can be deceiving. Pastafarianism is indeed a weapon in the
    arsenal of reason, a rebuke of religions that rationalize violence, treat
    women as property, and promise eternal rewards to those who take innocent
    lives. The FSM apparently disapproves of such things.

    Of course, fundamentalist religion would disapprove of Miller and
    Pastafarianism as well, and the most extreme of fundamentalists would treat
    Pastafarians pretty much as they treated the staff of Charlie Hedbo in
    January and other residents of Paris on Friday night.

[The full article can be found here. It’s a good read.]

Interesting analysis, but I’m not sure that any Pastafarian activities have
such clear (and noble) motivations, and it is alarming to think what extreme
fundamentalists may like to do to us for any perceived mockery.

I feel it is a basic human right to poke at any institution/ideology, and any
institution/ideology that holds itself above criticism is one at odds with the
modern world.

That said, I think Pastafarianism is at its best when it’s good-humored, and at
its worst when it becomes hateful. (This will not be a venue for inflammatory
anti-Islam sentiment).

I’m not sure anyone has a great idea of what is the solution to violent
extremism. It may need more than “weapons of Reason” to defeat it.

What do you think?

» Read the full post and discuss

                                    #Evangelism #General #Secular Vs. Religious
                                                                 ● 640564 Views
                                                                  ● 51 Comments

Victory in Massachusetts: Pastafarian Allowed to Wear Colander in License Photo

               Published November 16th, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

license

The Boston Globe has a nice story about a Pastafarian lady’s successful efforts
in wearing a colander in her driver’s license photo, helped by the American
Humanist Association.

    In August, the Lowell resident was denied a renewed license by the
    Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles, she said, for wearing the metal
    cookware.

    “They were kind of laughing at me,” Miller said. “I thought of other
    religions and women and thought that this was not fair. I thought, ‘Just
    because you haven’t heard of this belief system, [the RMV] should not be
    denying me a license.’ ”
    According to the RMV’s website, drivers are barred from wearing hats or
    head covers in their photos, unless the clothing items are “for medical or
    religious reasons.”

    Miller filed for an appeal immediately after the August incident. Through a
    friend, she enlisted the help of Patty DeJuneas, a member of the Secular
    Legal Society, a network of lawyers that assist the American Humanist
    Association.

You can read more about it at the Boston Globe here.

I feel like our efforts to wear Religious Headwear in Offical Identification
may be misunderstood occasionally (this Boston Globe article caused more than
few upset emails). I wish that it was more clear that the Church of FSM is not
a mean-spirited group and that we’re not out to mock anyone’s particular
religion or their religious hats. It is just that it’s weird to find these
places where bureaucratic regulation and religion are entangled — and I hope
that we’re doing more good than bad when we fight for equal right to use these
rules. I realize that we may inadvertently offend a few religious people (and
maybe annoy a few bureaucrats) and for that I’m sorry.

We can all look forward to the day when Pastafarians feel it’s socially
acceptable to wear religious headwear in our daily lives.

» Read the full post and discuss

                                             #Endorsement #Evangelism #Evidence
                                                                 ● 786251 Views
                                                                 ● 108 Comments

          The BBC has endorsed the Pastafarian universe-origin theory

                Published November 2nd, 2015 by Bobby Henderson

bigbang1

The BBC has endorsed (albeit subtly) our theory of the origins of the universe
(that the Flying Spaghetti Monster created everything) in this animated video.
The video is part of The History of Ideas, on the topic of The Big Bang and the
origins of the universe. The FSM appears at about 1:30.

While it could have been made more clear they support our views – one could
miss the FSM if not paying attention – I’m pleased that such a respected
organization as the BBC finds it appropriate to include us. Thank you to
everyone involved.

» Read the full post and discuss

                                 Page 1 of 154
                                 123456next ›
[                    ] [Search]
[polaro] [polaro] [polaro] [polaro]

Discussion Forum

26,137 members

Contact Me


[cert312x241]

Tweets by @henderob

                   Please help us stay ahead of the Mormons!

[generated1]


Contribute To The Site


The Church of the FSM is always looking for content. Details here


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Support the Cause

The Church is funded entirely by your purchases of FSM merchandise. Thank you
for your support.

[storead6]


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Buy this shirt:
[shirt_ad_0]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Buy Car Emblems

[fiatemblem]


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Purchase the Gospel

[booklink2]

An elaborate spoof on Intelligent Design, The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti
Monster is neither too elaborate nor too spoofy to succeed in nailing the
fallacies of ID. It's even wackier than Jonathan Swift's suggestion that the
Irish eat their children as a way to keep them from being a burden, and it may
offend just as many people, but Henderson puts satire to the same serious use
that Swift did. Oh, yes, it is very funny. -- Scientific American.

Me

Bobby's Blog

[blog-sideb]

Contact Bobby: Contact Me


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Play
[fsmflashga]


  • >> Georgia Drivers License Discrimination
  • >> The Lansing capitol display looks great
  • >> He watches over us
  • >> New Zealand government approves Pastafarian marriage ceremonies
  • >> The war on Holiday
  • >> Send a festive Holiday propaganda card
  • >> Psychology Today says we're not completely nuts
  • >> Victory in Massachusetts: Pastafarian Allowed to Wear Colander in
    License Photo
  • >> Please do not delude yourself
  • >> The BBC has endorsed the Pastafarian universe-origin theory
  • >> Happy Halloween
  • >> Pastafarian headgear is allowed in UK licenses.
  • >> Ancient Pastafarian Relic Unearthed
  • >> Sighting off the Angolan coast
  • >> Mars Sighting
  • >> Retirement headgear presentation

  • >> Rasputin said Yeah, I'm always learning cr*p from these blogs. I know
    more cr*p now than I ever did before. Maybe... [Nativity showdown]
  • >> Apprentice Frederic said Cap'n B., Rasputin, Excelsior, thank you all
    for the *very* most interesting series of posts here i... [Nativity
    showdown]
  • >> 銆愬ぇ浜烘皸锛併亰寰椼仾19锝嬶絿脳2鍊嬨偦銉冦儓銆戙€€銉︺兗銈儗銉愩€€娲
    荤櫤鐘ó銆€銈儶銈搞儕銉€€1姝?6姝崇敤銆€涓兓澶у瀷鐘ó鐢ㄣ€€(涓矑)銆€19锝
    嬶絿脳2 said I am regular reader, how are you everybody? This article
    posted at this website is actually good. [Psychology Today says we’re not
    completely nuts]
  • >> 瀹屽２銆€銆愰€佹枡鐒℃枡銆戙優銉炽儉銉?銈儯銉勩儞銉笺€€銈偆銉冦偗銉犮兗
    銉撱兂銈般儹銉笺偡銉с兂銆€銈儸銉炽偢銉炪儖銈€€锛戯紥锛愶辑锛?6鐐广偦銉冦
    儓銆€銇俱 said Howdy! Do you use Twitter? I'd like to follow you if that
    would be ok. I'm definitely enjoying your... [Cult of Greed]
  • >> jowat, йоват, иоват, промышленный клей, йоватерм, йоваколь, иоватерм,
    иоваколь, растворитель, отвердитель, очиститель, jowat клей, jowat
    растворител said  Ð Ð¾Ð²Ð°Ñ ÐµÑ Ð¼ [fish]
  • >> Captain Birdseye said Rasputin, I doubt if the name gets much use at
    all. She's my favourite Biblical character; turned ha... [Nativity
    showdown]
  • >> Captain Birdseye said Rasputin, I don't think Hasidic Jews are allowed
    to marry outside of their faith. Feminist Kosher Zu... [Kiva Team FSM has
    reached $2 Million in Loans]
  • >> Rasputin said Lilith was the wife of Niles in the TV show, "Frazier".
    Now I understand how apt that name was for t... [Nativity showdown]
  • >> Rasputin said Dear Matheus, please PLEASE return here more often. Share
    your wisdom from us. Only one piece of adv... [What exactly do you think
    you are going to prove?]


                               Last 100 Comments

  • 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                  Categories

                                    General
                                 general (887)
                      Hate-Mail (and Concerned Criticism)
                                hate-mail (450)
                                   Sightings
                                sightings (287)
                                  Evangelism
                               evangelism (225)
                                Arts and Crafts
                             arts-and-crafts (156)
                                  Noodle Love
                               noodle-love (71)
                                    Pirates
                                 pirates (67)
                                   Evidence
                                 evidence (62)
                                     Food
                                   food (52)
                             Secular Vs. Religious
                           secular-vs-religious (37)
                             Holiday Celebrations
                                 holiday (33)
                                   Nut Watch
                                 nut-watch (3)
                                     Spite
                                   spite (2)
                                  Endorsement
                                endorsement (2)
              (C) 2016 Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster ...
