[rss] [twitter-ic] YouTube Pinterest COG Group on Atheist Network

The Coming Out Godless Project

Share Your Story

  • Always Godless
  • Agnostic
  • Buddhism
      □ Falun Gong
      □ General Buddhism
      □ Nichiren Shoshu
      □ Taoism
      □ Zen
  • Christianity
      □ Anglican
      □ Assembly of God
      □ Baptist
      □ Born Again
      □ Catholic
      □ Church of the Brethren
      □ Church of Christ
      □ Church of England
      □ Episcopal
      □ Evangelical
      □ Fundamentalism
      □ General Christianity
      □ Holy Roller
      □ Jehovah’s Witness
      □ Lutheran
      □ Methodist
      □ Mormon
      □ Pentecostal
      □ Presbyterian
      □ Protestant
      □ Seventh Day Adventist
      □ Unitarian
  • Deism
  • Hinduism
  • Islam
  • Judaism
      □ General Judaism
      □ Hasidic
      □ Qabala
  • Paganism
      □ Druidism
      □ Wiccan
  • Scientology
  • Unspecified

Navigation Menu

  • Submit
  • Shop
  • Refer People to Our Store as an Affiliate
  • Link To Us

Share your godless story with the community.

Or pick a category above and start reading others.

[line]
Don't forget to take a look at our store. Atheism, Skepticism, Humanism,
Science and more!
[line]

Posts

Recent Stories Read "Always Godless" >>
May09

Joseph’s Story

(Via Joseph Kinsey) I guess I should start this off by giving a geographical
site to set the tone. I’m from southern Indiana. Although not in the bible
belt, faith runs...

Apr29

Mississippi Blues

(Via Renee McBrowning) Coming out began with agnostic musings shared with my 
friends and family. I quit going to church and never looked back. After many
years of self doubt I...

Apr05

Jessica’s Story

(Via Jessica) Baptised Roman Catholic by my parents shortly after my birth, I
grew up going to church once or twice a year. Easter is the main holiday I
recall being taken to...

Mar10

Carter’s Story

(Via Carter) 5 years. I’ve been keeping this facade up for 5 years. For some,
that might not seem like much, but for a young teen, its an eternity. I’d have
to say I...

Feb23

My failed attempt to be a christian

(Via Kip) I’ve been an atheist since I reached the age of reason. There came a
time for me somewhere around early adolescence I began to realize things
happening around and...

Oct28

John’s Story

(Via John) As soon as I was born my parents raised me in a Christian (baptist
specifically) house hold, and taught me to be against other religions, atheist,
and homosexuals. But...

Oct03

Start Questioning

(Via M) I would like to start by giving background information on my family.
Both sides of my family are Lutheran and very serious about their religion.
Everyone in my family has...

Aug08

Vero’s Story

(Via Vero P) I was raised in the Church of the Brethren in Virginia.  As a
pacifist church, I continue to appreciate the questioning of main stream
religion from that perspective...

May27

Andrew’s Story

(Via Andrew) I was brought up as a Christian in the Australian Uniting Church,
which is one of the, shall we say, milder forms of Christianity. I was
confirmed into that church at...

May09

Religious High School Made Me Realize My Atheism

(Via Danielle) I was baptized as a Catholic, participated in my first holy
communion, and proceeded to go about being a Catholic as usual until I got to
high school. The funny...

May01

Mission trip to the beach

(Via Quynh) I was 16 at the time and was part of a youth group that raises
money for Speed The Light each year to fund mission trips. Earlier in the year
each teen was encouraged...

Apr29

I just haven’t lived through enough

(Via SparsinKY) I grew up Catholic, like most other Catholics, and went to
Catholic school for most of my life. I was just surrounded by Catholics and
that was my norm. It only...

●●YouTubePinterestCOG Group on Atheist Network  Home ☼ Submit Story ☼ The COG
Blog ☼ Shop ☼ Donate ☼ Link to Us ☼ Videos ☼ About Us ☼ Contact Us ☼ * ☼ [bad]

