[humanist-h]

  • Home & Calendar
  • About
  • Programs
  • Greg Epstein’s Blog
  • Psychologist in Residence
  • 2015 in Review
  • Contact
  • Donate
  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Meetup

Humanists, Atheists, Agnostics and Allies:

Welcome to your
Community.

Connect. Act. Evolve.

[SLIDE_CNN_Feature01]
SLIDE_03
SLIDE_02

UPCOMING EVENTS

View Full Calendar

january, 2016

Sort Options

Sort By:

date

Date

Title

Color

Program:

All

All

Childcare

Family Social Night

Harry Potter

Harvard Community of Humanists, Atheists, Agnostics

Humanist Hub Discussion Group

Humanist Hub Monthly Book Club

Humanist Learning Lab

Humanist Mindfulness Group

Jane Eyre Book Group

Special Event

Sunday Speaker Series

Values in Action

 Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space 30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA
sun24jan1:30 pmGreg Epstein: In Praise of Insecurity1:30 pm Humanist Community
at Harvard - Hub Main SpaceProgram:Sunday Speaker Series

Event Details

Insecurity is underrated. In a society that values confidence and
assertiveness, "insecure" is one of the worst, most damning insults with which
to characterize a person. But what if we [...]

more

Event Details

Insecurity is underrated. In a society that values confidence and
assertiveness, “insecure” is one of the worst, most damning insults with which
to characterize a person. But what if we are missing out on the great beauty,
insight, and connection that can come from embracing some of our insecurities?

If you live in America today, you may have noticed a lot of talk about the
virtue of security. Immigration debates rage over border security; threats of
terrorism are addressed by the Department of Homeland Security; and the private
home security industry is growing daily, with increasingly advanced alarm
systems soon to be a $50 billion industry worldwide. It can be a fun game to
notice how often politicians like Donald Trump and Ted Cruz speak, with great
confidence, about the need for more security– just don’t make it a drinking
game, or you may need your stomach pumped.

Surely all of us want to be as safe as we can reasonably be. But as Alan Watts
argued in his 1951 book The Wisdom of Insecurity, we all suffer and we are all
mortal, so even trying to be 100% safe and secure is, by definition, an act of
lying to ourselves. And, as Greg will argue in this talk, in a 2016 where
change is the only constant, and where traditional sources of security for
some, such as patriarchy and racism, are thankfully in decline: we have so much
to gain if we can learn to accept and even value some of our own insecurity.

Greg, who has been the Humanist Chaplain at Harvard University for over a
decade, holds various advanced degrees, and is the New York Times bestselling
author of Good Without God, will be speaking on a subject around which he has
considerable expertise. After all, Greg has many years of experience at being
insecure about his own insecurities! Only in recent years has he begun to
accept his own lack of confidence as potentially a good thing, which in turn
has allowed him to connect more deeply with his community, which has in turn
caused him to notice that most of the people he loves and admires best are,
non-coincidentally, insecure in some way.

Join Greg for his first 2016 monthly talk at the Hub: with music, food,
discussion circles, and more.

Prospective first-time attendees are especially encouraged to attend this
event!

Childcare is available at this and all Hub Sunday programs. Please email
info@humanisthub.org to reserve a spot!

Time

(Sunday) 1:30 pm

Location

Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space

30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA

Meetup Details

Greg Epstein: Monthly Talk

Sunday, Jan 24, 2016, 1:30 PM

Humanist Hub
30 JFK Street, 4th Floor, Harvard Square Cambridge, MA

1 Humanists Attending
[thumb_1859]

Join Greg Epstein for his monthly talk: with music, food, discussion circles,
and more. All are welcome!

Check out this Meetup →

Learn More

Calendar GoogleCal

[                    ]

 
 
 
 
 Humanist Community at Harvard - Conference Room 30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA
mon25jan7:00 pmHumanist Hub Discussion Group7:00 pm Humanist Community at
Harvard - Conference RoomProgram:Humanist Hub Discussion Group

Event Details

Come connect with your fellow Humanists, Atheists, and Agnostics in a friendly,
thoughtful, moderated discussion (which take place every Monday night). Topics
will be drawn from the preceding Sunday's event. [...]

Event Details

Come connect with your fellow Humanists, Atheists, and Agnostics in a friendly,
thoughtful, moderated discussion (which take place every Monday night). Topics
will be drawn from the preceding Sunday’s event. Email robdotlaurent@gmail.com
for more info!

Doors close at 7:20pm.

 

Time

(Monday) 7:00 pm

Location

Humanist Community at Harvard - Conference Room

30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA

Calendar GoogleCal

[                    ]

 
 
 
 
 Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space 30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA
tue26jan7:00 pm- 8:30 pmSecular Meditation7:00 pm - 8:30 pm Humanist Community
at Harvard - Hub Main SpaceProgram:Humanist Mindfulness Group

Event Details

Event Details

Join the Humanist Mindfulness Group for a variety of secular meditations, with
discussions to follow. No experience necessary! Email Rick Heller for more
information: rick.heller@yahoo.com

Time

(Tuesday) 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm

Location

Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space

30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA

Calendar GoogleCal

[                    ]

 
 
 
 
 Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space 30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA
wed27jan7:00 pm- 8:30 pmHarry Potter as a Sacred Text (Reading Group)7:00 pm -
8:30 pm Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main SpaceProgram:Harry Potter
Audience:Family Friendly

Event Details

What if we read the books we love as if they were sacred texts? What would we
learn? How might we change? Join us as we (re)read all seven Harry Potter books
[...]

more

Event Details

What if we read the books we love as if they were sacred texts?

What would we learn? How might we change?

Join us as we (re)read all seven Harry Potter books and explore what they might
teach us about our own lives. Between now and April, each week we’ll read a
handful of chapters in our own time and then gather on Wednesday evening to
talk through the passages that struck us the most.

Bring: A copy of Harry Potter (we’ll announce which one)

Cost: Suggested donation of $10 but all welcome!

To receive updates with reading guidance and the questions we’ll explore each
week – sign up here!

This group meets weekly, except for the following dates:
11/25, 12/23, 12/30, 3/16

Time

(Wednesday) 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm

Location

Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space

30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA

Learn More

Calendar GoogleCal

[                    ]

 
 
 
 
 Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space 30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA
sun31jan1:30 pmVanessa Zoltan & Bob Filbin: Harry Potter as a Sacred Text1:30
pm Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main SpaceProgram:Sunday Speaker Series

Event Details

Vanessa Zoltan will talk about how we can ritualize conversations about art and
meaningful activities. She will share some of the practices and lessons that
she has practiced through her [...]

more

Event Details

Vanessa Zoltan will talk about how we can ritualize conversations about art and
meaningful activities. She will share some of the practices and lessons that
she has practiced through her work with Harry Potter as a Sacred Text.

Vanessa is the Assistant Humanist Chaplain at Harvard and the Humanist Hub.

With special guest Bob Filbin: Bob is Chief Data Scientist at Crisis Text Line,
the first large-scale 24/7 national crisis line for teens on the medium they
use and trust most: texting. Bob specializes in the application of behavioral
psychology to questions of data collection, analysis, and reporting, to make
sure data leads to strategic actions. Bob has given keynote lectures on using
data to drive behavioral change at the YMCA National CIOs Conference, NFAR
Summit, and SXSW. He has written for the Harvard Business Review and Medium,
and was named one of the Chronicle of Philanthropy’s 40 Under 40 in 2016 who
are making their mark in the nonprofit world. He lives and plays Quidditch in
NYC.

Childcare is available at this and all events. Please email
info@harvardhumanist.org to reserve a spot!

Time

(Sunday) 1:30 pm

Location

Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Main Space

30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA

Meetup Details

Vanessa Zoltan: Harry Potter as a Sacred Text

Sunday, Jan 31, 2016, 1:30 PM

Humanist Hub
30 JFK Street, 4th Floor, Harvard Square Cambridge, MA

1 Humanists Attending
[thumb_1859]

Join Vanessa Zoltan, the Assistant Humanist Chaplain at Harvard University and
the Humanist Hub for a talk on reading secular texts as sacred.

Check out this Meetup →

Learn More

Calendar GoogleCal

[                    ]

 
 
 
 
 Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Classroom 30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA
sun31jan4:00 pm- 6:00 pmKids & Families Potluck4:00 pm - 6:00 pm Humanist
Community at Harvard - Hub ClassroomProgram:Family Social NightAudience:Family
Friendly

Event Details

Event Details

Join Humanist Hub families, parents, and kids for food, fun, and games at the
Hub! For more information, contact Heli: helitca@gmail.com
Spring dates:
Jan 31
Mar 6
Apr 3
May 1
Jun 12

Time

(Sunday) 4:00 pm - 6:00 pm

Location

Humanist Community at Harvard - Hub Classroom

30 JFK Street, Cambridge, MA

Calendar GoogleCal

[                    ]

 
 
 
 
Show More Events

↑

30 JFK STREET 4TH FLOOR - HARVARD SQUARE | CAMBRIDGE, MA

(C) 2016 Humanist Hub :.

