HoleyBooks.com

Read the books.

Skip to content

  • Home
  • The Holey Books
      □ Genesis
      □ Exodus
      □ Leviticus
      □ Numbers
      □ Deuteronomy
      □ Joshua
      □ Judges
  • Further Reading
  • About
  • Contact

← Older posts

Camels Through Time

by Ryan Posted on February 8, 2014

Archaeologists from Israel have determined through radiocarbon dating that the
arrival of domesticated camels in the Middle East happened much later than the
events in the Bible suggest.

In Genesis 12:10-20 Abram goes to Egypt to escape famine and he and his
sister–er, wife–Sarai, have their infamous encounter with Pharaoh. In courting
Sarai, Pharaoh gives Abram “servants” (that is, slaves) and animals, including
camels. The trouble comes when Ussher’s biblical timeline is used. Ussher puts
Abram/Abraham leaving for Egypt 1921 BCE. After he gets his camel gift, he
returns to Bethel (in Israel), presumably with his camels. The study finds that
the first domesticated camels didn’t arrive in Israel until almost a millennium
later in 900 BCE.

Is this a big deal? In some ways yes. It challenges the notion that the Bible
is perfect and infallible (which, even without this new tidbit of information
it clearly is not). That’s only a subset of believers though, so I imagine the
Jewish and Christian worlds will carry on as usually.

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, Genesis, SCIENCE! | Comments Off on
Camels Through Time

Okay, okay, BuzzFeed occasionally does something worthwhile

by Ryan Posted on September 1, 2013

I’ve grown a bit tired of all the listicles floating around on Facebook these
days, but it would seem that BuzzFeed put one together that’s too relevant for
Holey Books to ignore. The list is called The 16 Most Bizarre Moments In The
Bible. If you’ve been a regular reader you’ll noticed we’ve pick up a number of
these and will likely comment on the ones that appear later in the Bible than
we’ve currently reached (Judges). Sadly, I think we missed the whole God shows
his butt to Moses.

Here’s what we’ve covered so far from the list:

Continue reading →

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, Genesis, Exodus, Numbers, new
testament, mass murder | 2 Comments

The Bible and Abortion, Part 2

by Greg Posted on July 22, 2013

At Salon, a post about abortion and the Bible gets a lot—although not
everything—right:

    Given the amount of effort and political capital the religious right puts
    into trying to restrict abortion, you’d guess that opposition to women’s
    choice must take up a huge portion of the Bible. But the reality is that
    nothing could be further from the truth.

We have covered a lot of this ground on Holey Books before. For example, during
our reading of the Book of Numbers—mentioned in that article—we asked, Is God
Pro-Life? Covering many of the same issues, Ryan has produced a series on
marriage in the various Old Testament books we have covered thus far, including
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy. Our conclusions are much
the same as the linked Salon article, but we’ve hardly covered the topic
extensively, as we are still only partially through the Old Testament.

So stay tuned for much, much more.

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers
, Deuteronomy, abortion | Comments Off on The Bible and Abortion, Part 2

Gideon’s Cellphone (Judg. 6-7)

by Greg Posted on July 19, 2013

As we have already discussed, the Book of Judges contains the stories of the
Israelites’ leaders (termed “judges”). One of them, who possesses a more
memorable name (at least to this blogger), mostly thanks to the Supreme Court
case and Anthony Lewis book, is Gideon.

From the tribe of Manasseh, Gideon is called by God again—why else?—to bring
the Israelites’ away from their wandering ways. Not having witnessed enough
miracles, perhaps, the Israelites have fallen away from God’s ways, and need
someone to help them back into goodness.

Continue reading →

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, judges | Comments Off on Gideon’s
Cellphone (Judg. 6-7)

The Song of Deborah (Judg. 5)

by Greg Posted on May 1, 2013

Deborah

One of the most popular leaders in the Book of Judges has long been Deborah: an
early example of a woman leader—and the only female “judge” (read: chief)—she
has rightfully drawn a lot of attention because of her unique place in the Old
Testament (along with, in a different way, Ruth). But Deborah also serves
another purpose: to allow us to see another hole in Biblical storytelling.

Continue reading →

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Comments Off on The Song of Deborah (Judg. 5)

SCOTUS, Prop 8, and the Bible

by Ryan Posted on March 26, 2013

Today the United States Supreme Court heard arguments on California’s
Proposition 8, which banned gay marriage in the state. At this moment it is
unclear how the court will rule, or how far. Our hope is that the Court
remembers that a civil institution, such as marriage, requires no biblical
justification in this country.

Not that there is any clear biblical justification to begin with. We’ve
explored quite thoroughly the wide interpretation the Bible offers on marriage,
and that it is far from clear that so-called “traditional” marriage enjoys a
biblical endorsement.

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged news, homosexuality, marriage | Comments Off on
SCOTUS, Prop 8, and the Bible

The Death of Joshua and the Need for a “Judge” (Judg. 2)

by Greg Posted on March 4, 2013

If the Book of Judges is an accurate guide, the ancient Israelites can perhaps
best be compared to a herd of sheep: without a shepherd, without a strong
guide, they flounder and, inevitably it seems, end up breaking covenants and
worshipping the wrong deity.

If, thus far in the Old Testament, we didn’t already understand this well
enough, the Book of Judges is quick to remind us: after the death of Joshua,
God’s chosen people are having problems.

Continue reading →

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, judges | Comments Off on The Death
of Joshua and the Need for a “Judge” (Judg. 2)

Texas Schools Subverting Unbiased Biblical Education

by Greg Posted on February 8, 2013

From The Washington Post, a guest column by Charles C. Haynes examines how
Texas schools may be subverting what is supposed to be unbiased comparative
religious education:

    Conducted by religious studies professor Mark Chancey of Southern Methodist
    University, the study examines elective Bible courses offered in 57 Texas
    school districts and 3 charter schools and concludes that “evidence of
    sectarian bias, predominantly favoring perspectives of conservative
    Protestantism, is widespread.” (The full report is available at www.tfn.org
    /biblecourses.)

    In other words, school officials in many parts of Texas convert public
    schools into Sunday schools in violation of the First Amendment’s ban on
    government establishment of religion.

Not all of the schools, though, are guilty—according to the report, at least 11
are providing “objective study of biblical literature.” At Holey Books, we of
course believe it’s important to actually study all of the Bible—and,
importantly, without any sort of sectarian agenda.

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged texas | Comments Off on Texas Schools Subverting
Unbiased Biblical Education

Who Were the Judges? (Judg. 1-8)

by Greg Posted on January 28, 2013

The Book of Judges, I recently posted, is not in fact about judges. While the
name stems from a translation issue—the ever-shifting meaning of
language—regardless of what we call them, the judges in the Book of Judges
will, to paraphrase Juliet, still smell as sweet (or, perhaps more accurately,
be as barbarous, at least if Joshua is any guide). So who were these “judges”?

Continue reading →

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, judges | Comments Off on Who Were
the Judges? (Judg. 1-8)

The Goodness of a Loving God: More Hardened Hearts (Josh. 11:16-20)

by Ryan Posted on January 26, 2013

As we’ve seen previously, Joshua and the Israelites conquered the promised land
with very little regard to the people already living there. That, of course, is
a little too kind. Joshua and the Israelites repeatedly wiped out whoever was
in their way, including women and children. In Joshua 11 we are treated to
another conquest, this time of the Northern Kingdoms. And once again they kill
everyone:

Continue reading →

Share this:

  • Email
  • Twitter
  • Facebook
  • More
  • 

  • Google +1
  • Tumblr
  • 
  • Pinterest
  • StumbleUpon
  • 
  • Digg
  • Print
  • 
  • Reddit
  • 

Posted in Blog Post | Tagged Old Testament, justice, joshua, mass murder | 
Comments Off on The Goodness of a Loving God: More Hardened Hearts (Josh.
11:16-20)
← Older posts

  • RSS Feed Holey Books on Twitter
  • Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Recent Posts

      □ Camels Through Time
      □ Okay, okay, BuzzFeed occasionally does something worthwhile
      □ The Bible and Abortion, Part 2
      □ Gideon’s Cellphone (Judg. 6-7)
      □ The Song of Deborah (Judg. 5)
  • Tags

    abortion atheism christianity chuck klosterman dead sea scrolls Deuteronomy
    Exodus Gay Marriage Genesis gnosticism homosexuality isaiah jehovah's
    witnesses jesus joshua judges justice Leviticus marriage mass murder news
    new testament Numbers Old Testament prayer SCIENCE! texas the tubes the
    vatican women
  • 
  • 

  • 

HoleyBooks.com
Proudly powered by WordPress.
Send to Email Address [                    ] Your Name [                    ] 
Your Email Address [                    ] loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
