SoundCloud
●

JavaScript is disabled

You need to enable JavaScript to use SoundCloud

Show me how to enable it

Amanda Bloom

Amanda Bloom

Phnom Penh

Amanda Bloom’s avatar

From the chaos of Phnom Penh Cambodia, Australian Amanda Bloom emerges with a
Classically inspired fusion album that sounds like a tea-party with Agnes Obel,
Chopin, Tori Amos and Michael Nymann. Her move to Cambodia is not surprising
considering her previous body of work, “The History of Things to Come”, was
recorded in Jordan in The Middle East with members of the Amman Symphony
Orchestra and Iraqi refugee engineer Kassim Sabounchi. Classically trained
since the age of 3, her first composition at age 6, a piano sonata taking out
first prize at the San Francisco young Composer’s Award. Amanda made her
compositional debut at the Sydney Opera House by 18 and then left to study
Opera in Florence singing on the famed Pontevecchio to support her passions.
The bulk of “Atlas” was written in Phnom Penh at a donated piano at the Music
Arts NGO school for Cambodian children and was recorded across Thailand,
Malaysia and Nashville where it was mixed. After returning from Nashville
Amanda travelled to The Ganges, in India with Bollywood cinematographer Viraj
Sing to make an epic music video that celebrates the beauty, vitality and
mystery of India. This was to accompany one of the main epic tracks off the
album “Eyes of Galena” an 8 minute world journey of a song which Amanda began
writing in Varanasi 3 years ago after seeing a man light the first match to
burn his father’s body at the Ghats. “Pleats of Fortuny” a song about Truth in
the face of depression and a vacuous world, has just been released in the lead
up to the release of “Atlas”

Amanda Bloom’s tracks

Pleats Of Fortuny by Amanda Bloom

published on 2015/03/24 05:01:29 +0000

Atlas - Journey of Hope by Amanda Bloom

published on 2014/09/18 10:46:32 +0000

Seeds of Life by Amanda Bloom

published on 2014/09/05 06:52:42 +0000

Rosetta Amanda Bloom by Amanda Bloom

published on 2013/10/08 17:49:12 +0000

"Fallacy" Live in Thailand (using the 4th Harmonic pedal) by Amanda Bloom

published on 2013/05/27 17:19:31 +0000

Amanda Bloom ALL YOU NEED by Amanda Bloom

published on 2011/08/31 04:43:40 +0000

Truth In The Sky by Amanda Bloom

published on 2011/03/23 10:10:55 +0000

Beautiful Beautiful by Amanda Bloom

published on 2011/03/23 10:01:38 +0000

Fallacy by Amanda Bloom

published on 2011/03/23 09:56:11 +0000

Leave Me Lightly Amanda Bloom.mp3 by Amanda Bloom

published on 2011/01/04 09:36:59 +0000

  • Amanda Bloom's likes
  • Amanda Bloom's playlists
  • Amanda Bloom's tracks
  • Amanda Bloom's comments

Your current browser isn't compatible with SoundCloud.
Please download one of our supported browsers. Need help?

Chrome | Firefox | Safari | Internet Explorer

Sorry! Something went wrong

Is your network connection unstable or browser outdated?

I need help

Popular searches

