nakedpastor

  • HOME
  • COMMUNITY
  • SHOP
  • BOOKS
  • DAVID
  • ADVERTISING
  • IMAGE USE
  • TALK WITH ME
  • PATRONS

[To search type and h]
nakedpastor

"Jesus Turns the Tables" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 1

Uncategorized

23 Jan, 2016

Jesus Turns the Tables

BUY THIS CARTOON The Student Christian Movement of Canada commissioned me to do
a cartoon with Jesus turning the tables of the money-changers. Their motto is
“Flipping Tables since 1921”. They wanted something they...

Caption This Contest! 113

cartoons / freebie

22 Jan, 2016

Donald Trump and Jesus Christ: Caption This Contest

BUY THIS CARTOON! It’s time for another Caption This Contest! Provide a caption
for this cartoon. Oh, this is going to be good! The winner gets a fine art
reproduction print of the completed...

"Amazing Grace" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 19

cartoons

21 Jan, 2016

Just how amazing is grace?

BUY THIS CARTOON It’s always easy to sing “amazing grace, how sweet the sound,
that saved a wretch like me”, but it’s harder to sing, “amazing grace, how
sweet the sound, that saved a...

"Husbands and Wives" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 13

cartoons

20 Jan, 2016

wives need more advice than husbands

BROWSE MY ART GALLERY! This is an accurate cartoon of an observation I made in
a Christian bookstore many years ago. In fact, I’m being generous. There were
way more books for wives and...

"Squeeze In" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 7

cartoons

19 Jan, 2016

Do you have to squeeze to fit in?

BUY THIS CARTOON This cartoon appears in my new book Questions Are The Answer:
nakedpastor and the search for understanding. In this book I tell my story of
how I tried, for my whole...

"King's Legacy" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 1

cartoons

18 Jan, 2016

The legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr.

[BUY THIS CARTOON!] This happens with all great people. Generally, we quote
their inspiring words but fail to apply them. Did you like this cartoon?
Awesome! You can become a patron! COMMUNITY       BOOKS       ART       TEES
PLEASE NOTE: THE COMMENTS...

"For Naghmeh Abedini" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 49

cartoons / thought

17 Jan, 2016

Free Saeed and Abuse

BUY MY ART! I have followed the story of Saeed Abedini, the Iranian-American
pastor who had been imprisoned in Iran since September 2012, but who has since
been released. The campaign to have him...

"Not Exactly Like Us" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 1

cartoons

16 Jan, 2016

Not Exactly Like Us

[BUY THIS CARTOON STARTING AT $9.99!] I’m sort of on a theme lately of how
divisive the human race has become… or has always been and is revealing it more
and more. Selective. Picky....

"Bigfoot Leaders" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 22

cartoons / freebie

15 Jan, 2016

Freebie Friday: Why were you kicked out?

Welcome to another Freebie Friday contest! The winner of the draw can choose
any reproduction print of their choice from my shop. If you like this Bigfoot
cartoon, you can buy it HERE. In...

"knock knock" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 16

cartoons

14 Jan, 2016

knock knock who’s there?

BUY THIS CARTOON! Poor Jesus. Knock knock knocking on the church’s door. Like…
forever! Good theology actually. Has your relationship with the church changed?
Join plenty more where you came from at The Lasting...

"Theology & God" cartoon by nakedpastor David Hayward 52

cartoons

13 Jan, 2016

Our theology is not God!

[BUY THIS CARTOON!] This is the Christian theological spin on the fact that our
thoughts are not reality and that the word is not the thing. Our thoughts about
God are not God. In...

  • 
  • Next Page >>

Follow:

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

Become a Patron!

Become a Patron!

READ MY NEWEST BOOK

READ MY NEWEST BOOK
A ONE HOUR VIDEO THAT SAYS A LOT: PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online!
*
Archives

Archives [Select Month  ]

Categories

Categories[Select Category   ]

Popular Posts

  • Tony Jones on Mark Driscoll: What came first, the thug or the theology?
  • the death of Marcus Borg and his willful ignorance
  • Tony Jones' Story and Julie's: are victims still guilty until proven
    innocent?
  • World Vision, Gays, and Hypocrisy
  • when an atheist goes to heaven

 

© 2014-2015 Naked Pastor. All Rights Reserved.

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

 

Daily Email & More!

PLUS: Sign up & get my FREE eBook "The Stages of Deconstruction"!

[                    ][                    ]
[Yes! Sign me up!]
