God Hates Pork

Leviticus 11:3-8

Sidebar[Skip]

Leviticus 11:3 You may eat any animal that has a split hoof completely divided
and that chews the cud.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Deuteronomy 14:8   And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet cheweth not
the cud, it is unclean unto you: ye shall not eat of their flesh, nor touch
their dead carcass
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Leviticus 11:8 You must not eat their meat or touch their carcasses; they are
unclean for you.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Isaiah 65:4 who sit among the graves and spend their nights keeping secret
vigil; who eat the flesh of pigs, and whose pots hold broth of unclean meat;
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Isaiah 66:17 "Those who consecrate and purify themselves to go into the
gardens, following the one in the midst of those who eat the flesh of pigs and
rats and other abominable things--they will meet their end together," declares
the LORD.
(source)

Touch That Bacon, Burn in Hell!

[God_Hates_]Christians in the modern world are constantly faced with challenges
to their piety and holiness.  If it's not one thing it's another.  Temptations
such as cotton/polyester blends, women's unholy private parts, popular hair
styles, tasty shellfish dishes, claims that children should not be beaten, and
arguments in favor of equal rights for gay people are constantly challenging
people of faith. But one of the most terrible dangers to your holiness comes in
the form of certain tasty, salty meat treats. God Hates Pork! 

Supermarket Dangers  

When a True Christian™ enters a supermarket Satan is there waiting, trying to
trick you into buying pork and pork products. The devil wants you to buy bacon,
he wants you to munch on pork rinds, he hopes you'll eat pork chops. Some
so-called Christians even eat Ham on Easter Sunday!


Levitical Legislation

Christians living in the US have made great progress in recent years in their
efforts to align our laws with the Book of Leviticus, especially with anti-homo
laws, but we must do more if we are to remain the Official Nation of Jesus H.
Christ. We need to outlaw the sale of pork and products derived from pork! Help
to defend the Sanctity of Foodstuffs by donating to the God Hates Pork
foundation or by picketing outside any supermarket that offends our Lord and
Savior by offering bacon or bacon flavored foods.


What You Can Do

[god-hates-]Here are some things that any True Christian™ can do to prevent an
angry reaction from God if too many people are eating pork rinds:

  • Picket stores that sell pork
  • Collect signatures for Proposition No-SPAM
  • Donate to the Anti Pork Foundation
  • Vote against civil rights for people that eat pork
  • Get your church to burn DVDs with Porky Pig cartoons
  • Get your city or town government to ban pork sales
  • Tell your friends and neighbors about the dangers of eating pork

If a politician eats pork be sure you campaign against him! We don't want God
to pass judgment on his official nation because of bacon eating heathens.

    The good news of God's Hatred is brought to you by Steve's Web Hosting

God also hates:
barbers, brats, crustaceans,   Mixed Fibers and Vaginas
[Back To Top]

[piwik]

