Canadian Secular Alliance

  • About
      □ Frequently Asked Questions
      □ Friends of the CSA
      □ Contact
  • Policy Positions
  • Statements
  • Special Projects
      □ Religion Does Not Trump Human Rights: Donate to Our Trinity Western
        University Court Case Intervention
  • News
  • Media
  • Events
  • Get Involved

Religion Does NOT Trump Human Rights: Donate to our Trinity Western University
Court Case Intervention

With your support the Canadian Secular Alliance helped make Canadian secular
history earlier this year. We successfully intervened in the Supreme Court of
Canada case which ruled against the mixing of church and state in the form of
religious prayers […]

The CSA hails landmark Supreme Court ruling that prayer at city council
meetings infringes on freedom of conscience and religion

The CSA hails landmark Supreme Court ruling that prayer at city council
meetings infringes on freedom of conscience and religion

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE National Secularists Hail Landmark Supreme Court Decision
Invalidating Public Prayers TORONTO, ON – (April 15, 2015) – The Canadian
Secular Alliance (CSA) is hailing today’s landmark unanimous Supreme Court
decision invalidating public prayers in Canada’s city governments. […]

CSA to Ontario government: save $500 million/year with one secular school
system

CSA to Ontario government: save $500 million/year with one secular school
system

The Canadian Secular Alliance’s pre-budget submission to the Government of
Ontario notes that budgetary savings of at least $500 million per year can be
achieved by moving to a single, secular, publicly funded school system. Read
the submission here.

Media Advisory: Eliminate Public Prayer in Canada, Secularists Will Argue
Before Supreme Court

Media Advisory: Eliminate Public Prayer in Canada, Secularists Will Argue
Before Supreme Court

MEDIA ADVISORY – FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Eliminate Public Prayer in Canada,
Secularists Will Argue Before Supreme Court TORONTO, ONTARIO — (September 22,
2014) The Canadian Secular Alliance (CSA) has been granted intervenor status in
a potentially landmark Supreme Court of […]

CSA Prayer Case Fundraiser

CSA Prayer Case Fundraiser

Since its inception, the Canadian Secular Alliance has sought to protect the
rights of all Canadians – ensuring that individuals have both freedom of
religion and freedom from religion. The CSA’s consistent and principled defense
of secular ideals has now […]

Prayer in Municipal Councils

Prayer in Municipal Councils

The Canadian Secular Alliance favours ending the practice of conducting
official prayers during government meetings. (Read our full policy paper here…)
The CSA has been granted leave to intervene in a landmark case against four
religious institutions, which will be […]

Policy on the Office of Religious Freedom: Protecting the Rights of Atheists
and the Non-Religious

Policy on the Office of Religious Freedom: Protecting the Rights of Atheists
and the Non-Religious

          The Canadian Secular Alliance urges our government to protect the
rights of atheists and the non-religious by expanding the mandate of the Office
of Religious Freedom (read more…)      

CSA says “no” to Pope John Paul II Day

CSA says “no” to Pope John Paul II Day

On May 9, 2014, the Canadian Secular Alliance sent a written submission to the
Senate Standing Committee on Human Rights concerning concerning Bill C-266: An
Act to Establish Pope John Paul II Day: The Canadian Secular Alliance asks the
Senate […]

Originally posted to Flickr.com by Marc Lostracci as "Every Canadian Needs A
Copy"; uploaded to Wikimedia Commons using Flickr upload bot on 14:54, 8 August
2008 (UTC) by Skeezix1000; licenced under the Creative Commons Attribution 2.0
Generic licence.

An Impotent God?: Canada’s Constitutional Preamble

Think Again! TV, presents the Centre for Inquiry Canada Production: “An
Impotent God?: Canada’s Constitutional Preamble”: The video features
constitutional lawyer, author, professor, and former Liberal Party of Canada
leadership candidate Deborah Coyne, and Justin Trottier, Producer and Host of
Think […]

End Public Funding of Alberta’s Evangelical Schools

End Public Funding of Alberta’s Evangelical Schools

      April 29, 2014 End Public Funding of Alberta’s Evangelical Schools
Schools receive government funding while they violate the rights of children
CALGARY, ALBERTA–(Marketwired – April 29, 2014) – The constitutional rights of
students in Alberta’s alternative public […]

The CSA Has Serious Concerns with Quebec Bill 60

The CSA Has Serious Concerns with Quebec Bill 60

The Canadian Secular Alliance has serious concerns with the Quebec’s Bill 60: 
Charter affirming the values of State secularism and religious neutrality and
of equality between women and men,and providing a framework for accommodation
requests The CSA favours instead a […]

CSA debates taxpayer funding of Roman Catholic Schools

CSA debates taxpayer funding of Roman Catholic Schools

CSA spokesperson Justin Trottier engaged in a debate on the public funding of
Roman Catholic Schools with Dr. Patrick Dunne, in the only encounter where a
rep from the Roman Catholic Board has ever engaged on this issue: Be it […]

Secularists and Atheists Ask Questions of Federal Candidates

Secularists and Atheists Ask Questions of Federal Candidates

The Centre for Inquiry Canada and the Canadian Secular Alliance have been in
correspondence with many local candidates and attending political debates to
ask questions that promote our secular, pro-science and humanist values Apr 21,
2011 Centre for Inquiry Canada […]

Previous Next

Top Articles

CSA debates taxpayer funding of Roman Catholic Schools

CSA debates taxpayer funding of Roman Catholic Schools

January 24, 2013

The KAIROS hoax

January 4, 2010

“Open letter to CTV News Re: Misinformation on Catholic School Funding.”

January 17, 2014

The Canadian Secular Alliance

The Canadian Secular Alliance is a non-profit, public policy research and
advocacy organization advancing church-state separation and the neutrality of
government in matters of religion. We seek to represent all Canadians,
religious and non-religious alike, who believe that the Canadian government
should adopt public policies consistent with a secular state.

The CSA believes in church-state separation—the idea that the government of
Canada should not favour one religion over others, or religious belief over
non-belief. Our commitment is to liberal-democratic principles of equality,
fairness and justice for all under the law, regardless of religious belief or
lack thereof.

Learn more about us

More Articles

The Secularist Approach to Religious Education in Publicly Funded and
Independent Schools

November 2, 2014 Shortlink
[http://secularallian]

Speech by Justin Trottier, Canadian Secular Alliance Delivered at the
conference “The Future of Religion in Publicly Funded and Private Schools”
Organized by Professional Development Seminars October 28, 2014 You may also
download a PDF version of this speech. I […]

CSA Releases Video & Media Advisory in Support of Public Prayer Campaign

September 16, 2014 Shortlink
[http://secularallian]

The Canadian Secular Alliance has released a public statement - Eliminate
Public Prayer in Canada, Secularists Will Argue Before Supreme Court - and the
following video in support of our campaign to end public prayer at Canadian
city council meetings. For more information […]

Notice of Canadian Secular Alliance (CSA) Annual General Meeting

September 7, 2014 Shortlink
[http://secularallian]

Please note: An email announcing the CSA Annual General Meeting was set to all
members on August 28 We are pleased to confirm the location of the CSA’s Annual
General Meeting, to be held on Monday, September 29, 2014, 7:00-9:00 […]

What We Stand For

Loading ...

Get Involved

The Canadian Secular Alliance is actively seeking the involvement of Canadians
who support our objective of church-state separation. Learn how you can get
involved

Donate

Help support our cause by donating to the Canadian Secular Alliance.

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
Find Us on Facebook

Twitter Feed

Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason & Science to Merge with Center for
Inquiry fb.me/7Itaogg2X

About 8 hours ago from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

Abolish Catholic school districts, former education minister urges fb.me/
4CbnoV4r4

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

Alberta's new gender guidelines for schools rejected by 2 more bishops fb.me/
5Bea0xZkx

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

Catholic trustees fire back at minister over LGBTQ guidelines fb.me/IEUO1eSM

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

U.S., coalition concede they are losing propaganda war against Islamic State
fb.me/KXDiE6vS

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

U.S. appeals court to hear ‘Sister Wives’ family’s Utah polygamy case fb.me/
22JGIUEyb

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

David Cameron to back Muslim veil ban, will announce anti-radicalization
measures fb.me/KDryywoA

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

Boy slices off his own hand in penance for accidentally indicating he didn’t
love Muhammad at mosque fb.me/42uC0UQPN

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

‘It’s a gang pretending to be a state’: Discontent in Islamic State ‘caliphate’
as oil funds dry up fb.me/3b5mUcT7V

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

Islamic State holding as many as 3,500 Iraqis as ‘slaves’ and nearly 19,000
have died since early 2014: UN report fb.me/7CAmc9LyO

Yesterday from Cdn Secular Alliance's Twitter

Tags

catholic school christian christian flag church-state separation god in charter
law pope john paul ii day public funding secularism Think Again TV

