  • English
  • العربية
  • Español

 

aai-logo-150x aai logo 250x

feed-image
join us!

  • Home
      □ Site Map
  • About AAI
      □ Directors
      □ Contributors
      □ Bylaws
      □ Declarations
      □ Position Statements
      □ Joint Statements
      □ Website Report
      □ Media Kit
      □ AAI Logos
      □ Contact Us
  • Regional Reports
      □ Muslim Apostasy Report
      □ Australia/New Zealand
      □ Brasil ⤤
      □ Восточная Европа
      □ Deutsch ⤤
      □ East & Southeast Asia
      □ Eastern Europe (en)
      □ ελληνικά ⤤
      □ दक्षिण मध्य एशिया
      □ Hrvatska ⤤
      □ Latinoamérica
      □ Iraq
      □ Middle East (en)
      □ الشرق الأوسط
      □ خاورمیانه
      □ Subsaharan Africa
      □ South-Central Asia (en)
      □ North America
      □ Western Europe
      □ Arts Reviews
      □ End Blasphemy Laws News Feed
  • Secular World
      □ Issue Excerpt
      □ Advertising Rates
      □ Submission Guidelines
      □ Podcast
      □ Secular World Subscription
  • Activities
      □ Atheist Asylum
      □ AAI Foundation
      □ Freedom of Thought Report
      □ Conventions
          ☆ Convention Planner
      □ Mailing List
      □ Take Action!
      □ Stand Up For Reason in Uganda!
      □ AAI News
  • Resources
      □ Freedom of Thought Report
      □ Intentional Insights Project
      □ Doane`s Research
      □ Asylum Options for Refugees
      □ Movements
      □ Calopia – Cause Shopping
  • Support AAI
      □ AAI Membership
      □ Organisation Membership
      □ Volunteer
      □ Donate
      □ eBay Giving Works
      □ Advertise
      □ Store
  • Members Area
      □ Site Login

 
 
aai-logo

  • Stand Up For Reason Campaign

    We Are Not Witches!                                               mutilated
                                                                      witch
    Every year, Thousands of vulnerable children and elders are
    attacked and driven out of their homes or killed each year by
    family and neighbors who have been told they are "witches".

    Find out what AAI is doing to confront this inhuman tragedy and to hold
    those responsible to full account.
  • aai-slider-atheistcensus
  • aai-slider-blasphemylaws
  • aai-slider-takeaaiquiz
  • aai-slider-support
  • aai-slider-swt

  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 

Icelanders flocking to the Zuist religion

Written on 07 December 2015. Posted in Western Europe

An ancient Sumeran statue dating from around 2520 BC. The Sumeran mythology is
thought to be one of the world's oldest religion, on which others are very much
based.A new religion, Zuism, based on the worship of the ancient Sumeran gods
promises a refund for government religion taxes for everyone registering with
their religious group in Iceland.

On the Zuist website in Iceland it was advertised that anyone over the age of
16 registering with the religion (and thus unregistering from the National
Church of Iceland) would get a refund for these fees called parish fees.
However, tax authorities have responded to questions from news organizations
explaining that if Zuists go ahead to refund parish fees to their members they
will have to pay income tax from these funds.
 
Zuists would like to abolish government funding to religious organisations in
the form of parish fees and believe that the "state should stop gathering data
on the personal religious beliefs of Icelanders."

Continue Reading

Britain is no longer a Christian country and should stop acting as if it is,
says judge

Written on 07 December 2015. Posted in Western Europe

Anglican Church logoThe Telegraph (UK): A two-year commission, chaired by the
former senior judge Baroness Butler-Sloss and involving leading religious
leaders from all faiths, calls for public life in Britain to be systematically
de-Christianised.
 
It says that the decline of churchgoing and the rise of Islam and other faiths
mean a "new settlement" is needed for religion in the UK, giving more official
influence to non-religious voices and those of non-Christian faiths.
 
The report provoked a furious row as it was condemned by Cabinet ministers as
"seriously misguided" and the Church of England said it appeared to have been
"hijacked" by humanists.
 
The report, by the Commission on Religion and Belief in Public Life, claims
that faith schools are "socially divisive" and says that the selection of
children on the basis of their beliefs should be phased out.

Continue Reading

Masturbation & Porn Bigger Priority Than Planet & Poverty for US Bishops

Written on 28 November 2015. Posted in North America

By Patricia Miller, Religion Dispatches:

US Conference of Catholic Bishops (logo)

In another sign of just how far the agendas of the U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops and Pope Francis have diverged, it's worth noting that at their
recently concluded fall plenary, the bishops signaled strongly about what's on
their radar when the only formal pastoral statement they issued was about what
they consider a pressing pastoral crisis—pornography.

The bishops couldn't be bothered to add either the environment or the plight of
distressed peoples—whether they be refugees and immigrants or the poor—to their
list of key priorities, despite the fact that they are a clear priority for
Francis, and, therefore, the church. (Although they did work in some language
about concern for the poor and immigrants.) And there was virtually no mention
of growing economic inequality or the corrosive effects of unfettered
capitalism. But pornography got a 22-page official pastoral statement.

Continue Reading

Religion and Conspiracy Theories

Written on 26 November 2015. Posted in Western Europe

Conspiracy TheoriesBY EDUARDO FELIZ ARIAS, AAI NEWS TEAM

Do you find civilization falling apart and think that social norms are being
undermined? Do you feel helpless and authoritarian with margins of low
self-esteem? If your levels of study and scientific information have hit rock
bottom and if you also show an interest in the paranormal and strange phenomena
(1), do not despair, there is a solution: Get together a sect to disclose
conspiracy theories.

According to H. Darwin and colleagues in the academic psychology department of
the University of Northumbria in the UK(1), individuals who promote conspiracy
theories embrace similar symptoms: high levels of anomie, autocracy, and low
self-esteem and education; considerable interest in precognition and the
supernatural; and, especially, the imminent end of the world.

The result of these findings suggest that belief in conspiracy theories is
directly related to effects of schizotypal and paranoid ideation (3). The
second concept refers to insane beliefs of persecution, while in the first the
subject has unusual experiences such as hearing thoughts aloud in one's head or
a feeling or sensation that one has developed magical powers. The truth is that
these individuals lose contact with reality, the person bears false beliefs
about what is happening and thus becomes a psychopath (2).

Continue Reading

Canadian Masquerade: "Personal Choice" of the Niqab

Written on 14 November 2015. Posted in North America

Marco de Rossi, Atheist Freethinkers, http://www.atheology.ca/blog-062/
 
Zunera Ishaq (allegedly), Muslim-Canadian voterJust to set things up for you,
Zunera Ishaq is the fundamentalist Muslim woman who, after a two-year legal
battle, obtained permission from the Federal Appeal Court to take the
citizenship oath while wearing her niqab.
 
Ms. Ishaq maintains that her battle to wear the niqab while taking the oath is
merely a personal choice. However, according to Ms. Tahir Gora of the Canadian
Coalition of Progressive Muslim Organizations, Ms. Ishaq is motivated by
political considerations. In fact, Zunera Ishaq works as a volunteer for an
organization linked to Jamaat-e-Islami, whose military wing is considered to be
a terrorist organization. Up until last October 16th, her Facebook profile
mentioned that she is a member of Jamaat-eIslami and a supporter of this
Pakistani political party.
 
Thus, she became a central figure in the 2015 federal election campaign.

Continue Reading

Australian Muslims being forced to assimilate, Islamic conference told

Written on 08 November 2015. Posted in Australia/New Zealand

[2-11-2015_6-42-39_am]Radical Islamic group Hizb ut-Tahrir have accused the
federal government of criminalising the Muslim community through its
anti-terror laws.
 
According to SBS, Hizb Ut-Tarir says Muslims are not just being forced to obey
the law - but also adopt Australian values.
 
The group, which supports an Islamic caliphate and sharia law, is banned in
some countries but not in Australia.

Continue Reading

Saudi Arabia executes three Iranian drug traffickers

Written on 08 November 2015. Posted in Middle East (English)

Under the kingdom's strict Islamic legal code, murder, drug trafficking, armed
robbery, rape and apostasy are all punishable by death.
 
[987485-executionbeheadingREUTE]According to Tribune, Saudi Arabia on Sunday
executed three Iranians convicted of drug trafficking, the interior ministry
said, bringing to 145 the number of death sentences carried out in the kingdom
this year.
 
The three convicts had attempted to "smuggle a large amount of hashish by sea"
into Saudi Arabia, the ministry said in a statement published on the official
SPA news agency.
 
They were executed in the eastern port city of Dammam, it said. Saudi
executions are usually carried out by beheading with a sword.
 
According to AFP tallies, their cases bring to 145 the number of locals and
foreigners executed in the conservative Islamic kingdom this year, compared
with 87 in 2014.
 
Rights experts have raised concerns about the fairness of trials in the
kingdom.
 
London-based Amnesty International says Saudi Arabia had the world's
third-highest number of executions last year, far behind China and Iran, but
ahead of Iraq and the United States.

Woman stoned to death in Afghanistan over accusation of adultery

Written on 08 November 2015. Posted in Middle East (English)

[image](CNN)- The men surround the woman as she stands in a hole dug into the
stony ground, only her head pokes above the surface. Then they begin to pick up
rocks and hurl them at her again and again from close range.
 
Her agonized cries grow louder as the barrage of stones intensifies.
 
The barbaric killing took place in a Taliban-controlled village in central
Afghanistan last week, according to the provincial governor. Video of it,
apparently filmed on a cell phone, has circulated on social media.

Continue Reading

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  •  
  •  

FaLang translation system by Faboba

 AAI Member Societies

افغانستان
 Afghanistan Atheists Organization 


AUSTRALIA
Atheist Foundation of Australia

Progressive Atheists

Sydney Atheists

CANADA
Libres penseurs athées / Atheist Freethinkers

DANMARK
Ateistik Selskab

DEUTSCHLAND
ibka54

Ελληνική Δημοκρατία
 Atheist Union of Greece

INDONESIA
Indonesian Atheists 

ایران
IAAI logo
 
العراق
Atheist Alliance of Iraq logo

IRELAND
Atheist Ireland

ISRAEL
Hofesh

الجمهورية اللبنانية
Freethought Lebanon

KONGERIKET NOREG
Hedningsamfunnet

PALESTINE
حركة الملحد / ملحد الفلسطينية

PHILIPPINES
Philippine Atheists and Agnostics Society

 hapi

POLSKA
Front Ateistyczny
 
PUERTO RICO
huse logo sm
 
SOUTH AFRICA
Free Society Institute

SUOMI
Suomen Ateistiyhdistys

TÜRKIYE CUMHURIYETI
Atheism Association of Turkey

UGANDA
Humanist Association for Leadership, Equity and Accountability

UNITED KINGDOM
Atheism UK

UNITED STATES
Atheist Alliance of America

Freedom From Religion Foundation

Secular Humanist Society of New York

movements-logo
 
Crowdsourcing Human Rights
 
Read More...

Accreditations

GuideStar ohchr community-rdf unhcr africancommission

Visit AAI on Social Networks

facebook twitter myspace youtube googleplus atheist-nexus-community
atheist-nexus-community atheist-nexus-community

Join AAI

aai-logo
 
AAI is a non-profit international organization registered in California, USA as
a 501(c)(3) US corporation. We survive on your donations and support. Click
here to VOLUNTEER your time or click here to DONATE to Atheist Alliance
International. 

  • Home
  • About AAI
  • Regional Reports
  • Secular World
  • Activities
  • Resources
  • Support AAI
  • Members Area


Disclaimer: AAI content and links may be from other Internet sources and should
be viewed with discreation. AAI reserves full indemity for all content,
links, and assumes no liability for media on other websites. AAI does not
permit discrimination. Contact AAI immediately for any questions or requests
regarding AAI website media. 

Atheist Alliance International | 1777 T Street NW, Washington, DC 20009-7125 |
info [at] atheistalliance [dot] org
Copyright 1998-2015 © Atheist Alliance International™ All rights reserved.
 

  • Home
      □ Site Map
  • About AAI
      □ Directors
      □ Contributors
      □ Bylaws
      □ Declarations
      □ Position Statements
      □ Joint Statements
      □ Website Report
      □ Media Kit
      □ AAI Logos
      □ Contact Us
  • Regional Reports
      □ Muslim Apostasy Report
      □ Australia/New Zealand
      □ Brasil ⤤
      □ Восточная Европа
      □ Deutsch ⤤
      □ East & Southeast Asia
      □ Eastern Europe (en)
      □ ελληνικά ⤤
      □ दक्षिण मध्य एशिया
      □ Hrvatska ⤤
      □ Latinoamérica
      □ Iraq
      □ Middle East (en)
      □ الشرق الأوسط
      □ خاورمیانه
      □ Subsaharan Africa
      □ South-Central Asia (en)
      □ North America
      □ Western Europe
      □ Arts Reviews
      □ End Blasphemy Laws News Feed
  • Secular World
      □ Issue Excerpt
      □ Advertising Rates
      □ Submission Guidelines
      □ Podcast
      □ Secular World Subscription
  • Activities
      □ Atheist Asylum
      □ AAI Foundation
      □ Freedom of Thought Report
      □ Conventions
          ☆ Convention Planner
      □ Mailing List
      □ Take Action!
      □ Stand Up For Reason in Uganda!
      □ AAI News
  • Resources
      □ Freedom of Thought Report
      □ Intentional Insights Project
      □ Doane`s Research
      □ Asylum Options for Refugees
      □ Movements
      □ Calopia – Cause Shopping
  • Support AAI
      □ AAI Membership
      □ Organisation Membership
      □ Volunteer
      □ Donate
      □ eBay Giving Works
      □ Advertise
      □ Store
  • Members Area
      □ Site Login

