[hp_final_nov]

Your #1 Source for Humanist Books

[logo]
 

FAQs

  • About Humanist Press

 

Authors

 

Books

  •  

        Categories:

     

    ​BiographyFictionHistory HumanismHumor Juvenile PhilosophyPoetryPolitics
    PsychologyReligion ScienceSelf-HelpOther

     

Coming soon

  •  
   
    Godless Grace

 

Contact

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
 
[godlessgracecover-final]

#1 SOURCE FOR HUMANIST BOOKS

“Atheists and other nonbelievers are per se immoral. … Since God is the source
of all morality, it’s impossible for a nonbeliever to be a good person.”

 

That’s the conventional wisdom, especially among fundamentalist Christians. And
it’s utterly false. Authors David Orenstein and Linda Ford Blaikie disprove the
smear in the most persuasive possible way: by telling the stories of dozens of
real-life nonbelievers who devote their lives to doing good for others.

 

Orenstein and Blaikie’s new book, Godless Grace: How Nonbelievers Are Making
the World Safer, Richer and Kinder, portrays nonbelievers both from America and
around the world. Learn more here!

Godless Grace

How Nonbelievers Are Making the World Safer, Richer and Kinder

  • BUY BOOK

    Buy the EBook

    From Humanist Press

    $9.99

    [hp_button][amazon_buttons]
   
    Buy the Print Book

    Paperback from Humanist Press

    $18.99

    PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *

  

AVAILABLE NOW!

The Myths that Stole

Christmas

 

BY DAVID KYLE JOHNSON

We all secretly know that Christmas isn't wholly good cheer, but David Kyle
Johnson is brave enough to say it! Far from being a holiday Grinch, Johnson 
presents his readers with a way to reclaim Christmas Learn more and order here!

[themythsthat]
[kurt_von]

Do you love Kurt Vonnegut? Do you have writing and editing skills that you're
just waiting for a chance to use? Then Humanist Press needs you! Help us with a
project to curate and edit a collection of Vonnegut's work with a focus on his
humanist philosophy. Learn more and apply here.

Children have the right to know the truth about how life evolved on earth. This
beautiful ebook shows children aged 4-7 how Charles Darwin’s evolutionary
theory of natural selection works, using easy words and colorful pictures they
can understand, but based on an actual scientific case study. Children will
also identify with Pepper’s social struggle, since self-esteem, bullying, and
being teased are recurring childhood themes. Children will see that sometimes
being different is what makes them amazing!

 
[cover]
 

Introduce Toddlers to the Wonders of Natural Selection

Twenty compelling stories, from Socrates to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, of heroes who
stood up against those claiming to know the will of God. From emperors
(Julian), to philosophers (Baruch Spinoza), to soldiers (Kemal Atatürk), to
novelists (Emile Zola), to lawyers (Clarence Darrow), to ordinary housewives
(Lucy Harris), a few brave souls have risked all rather than knuckle under to
the conventional religious wisdom of their day. Damned Good Company is truly a 
Profiles in Courage for humanists.

 

 [cover_web]  

Twenty Heroes Who Bucked the God Experts

The complete text of Thomas Jefferson's original cut-and-paste version of the
Gospels, portraying Jesus as a wise but strictly human teacher, deliberately
omitting what Jefferson called the "dross": the virgin birth, the miracles, the
resurrection, etc. Since Americans today embrace a wide variety of religious
belief, this update lists candidates for the "best" and "worst" excerpts from a
variety of scriptures, including the Hebrew Bible, the Qur'an, the
Bhagavadgita, Buddhist sutras, and the Book of Mormon.

  
[jefferson]
 

The Best and Worst of the World's Scriptures

The complete text of Thomas Jefferson's original cut-and-paste version of the
Gospels, portraying Jesus as a wise but strictly human teacher, deliberately
omitting what Jefferson called the "dross": the virgin birth, the miracles, the
resurrection, etc. Since Americans today embrace a wide variety of religious
belief, this update lists candidates for the "best" and "worst" excerpts from a
variety of scriptures, including the Hebrew Bible, the Qur'an, the
Bhagavadgita, Buddhist sutras, and the Book of Mormon.

  
[jefferson]
 

The Best and Worst of the World's Scriptures

The complete text of Thomas Jefferson's original cut-and-paste version of the
Gospels, portraying Jesus as a wise but strictly human teacher, deliberately
omitting what Jefferson called the "dross": the virgin birth, the miracles, the
resurrection, etc. Since Americans today embrace a wide variety of religious
belief, this update lists candidates for the "best" and "worst" excerpts from a
variety of scriptures, including the Hebrew Bible, the Qur'an, the
Bhagavadgita, Buddhist sutras, and the Book of Mormon.

  
[jefferson]
 

The Best and Worst of the World's Scriptures

In this deeply revealing and engaging autobiography, Herb Silverman tells his
iconoclastic life story. He takes the reader from his childhood as an Orthodox
Jew in Philadelphia to his adult life in the heart of the Bible Belt, where he
became a legendary figure within America's secular activist community.
Silverman’s humor will charm believers and nonbelievers alike, and will lead
all those who care about the separation of church and state to give thanks.

 

  
[candidate]
 

A Jewish Atheist for Governor of South Carolina???

  

Fourteen-year-old Charlene “Charlie” Whitestone has been left in the custody of
her grandfather, a charming religious fraud who inducts her into his various
enterprises. When he suddenly dies, Charlie is left alone to use her wits and
resourcefulness to take charge of her life. Soon a handsome cowboy has Charlie
performing staged “miracles,” plunging her deeper into a lucrative but
troubling web of deceit. A book for any adult who remembers the shock of
discovering that religion is not all it’s cracked up to be.

 
[the]  

A Riveting Novel Featuring

a Girl Who Challenges

Religious Deception

  

Hiram Crespo brings the Epicurean passion for maximizing happiness into the
modern age with this practical guidebook. Step one in Crespo’s “hedonic
calculus” is to rein in desires, so they become easier to satisfy – just the
opposite of the luxurious indulgence so often incorrectly associated with
Epicureanism. From there, he offers a blizzard of ideas, from
happiness-inducing recipes to the journaling of positive events, culminating
with Epicurus’s greatest good: communing with friends.

  
[crespo_finalcover199x30]
 

A mind-bending stroll through the holiday calendar, offering the unique
insights of a non-believer. The best way to think about the Fourth of July?
Why, the story of boxer Jack Johnson, of course. Valentine's Day? Forever
connected with the Muslim persecution of author Salman Rushdie. Thanksgiving?
Instead of an imaginary tale of friendly Indians, there’s a real American event
that occurred in November that we used to celebrate, and ought to again. Then
there’s The Big One: Christmas itself.

 [hod_cover]  

A Mind-Bending Stroll Through the Holiday Calendar

 

Humanism is “the radical idea that you can be good without a god.” That’s how
Roy Speckhardt, the longtime executive director of the American Humanist
Association, defines it. His new book, Creating Change Through Humanism, lays
out how and why people can lead moral and ethical lives without belief in a
higher power.

 

 [ccth-cover-1200-update]  

Humanism Doesn't Have a Bible. But If It Did, This Would Be It!

 

Be Smart About Being Happy

When her seismic exposé of religious abuses lands on the best-seller list,
Professor Mira Veron becomes a target for religious extremists. With a
seductive born-again assassin tracking her every move, she meets up with a
publishing tycoon who is guarding a volatile secret. Under siege by forces seen
and unseen, she embarks on a desperate quest for answers. Fans of Dan Brown and
Minette Walters will enjoy this suspenseful exploration of secularism and
domestic terrorism in 21st century America.

 
[wickedgodscover]  

A Suspenseful Exploration

of Religion and Politics

NASA scientist Reginald J. Exton shares succinctly the evidence that points to
the human origin of religions. Exton gathers a representative list of events,
scientific observations, and religious developments to show how humanity itself
created gods and religions to shield itself from the unknown. Exton discusses
why religious beliefs are so strongly entrenched in peoples’ thinking, while
offering an alternative to god-based religions that captures the best parts of
the various religious rules and philosophies practiced today.

 
 
[extoncover]
 

A Discussion on

Religious Beliefs

Noted feminist Barbara G. Walker’s 22 new essays cover the spectrum, from “The
Islamic Holocaust” being perpetrated against women to the dizziness of
crystal-gazers in “Encountering the New Age.” Walker explains how religion has
been perverted from its naturalistic, feminine roots to a patriarchal orgy of
violence. In her conclusion, “Family and the Future,” the ever-upbeat Walker
imagines a return to the original, best traditions of religion as a metaphor
for the wonder of the universe.

  
[walker_cover_final198x3]
 

Noted Feminist Barbara G. Walker’s 22 New Essays

 

Why is “entropy” bad science? Is the universe a giant clockwork, or something
more wondrous? Is there a scientific force that even atheists can feel
spiritual about? This book will blow your mind!

Land and Jarman prove that you don’t have to give up on science to be truly
spiritual – you just have to get it right. And you don’t have to be ashamed of
your spiritual side if you want to live your life according to empirical
reality – you just have to revere the force in nature that really exists.

 
 
[cover_final195x301]
 

A Stunning New Take On The Science vs. Spirituality Debate

MORE BOOKS, BY CATEGORY

 

Modern Christmas celebrations, often serve as a source of conflict—and can make
us anxious, stressed, fat, poor and stupid. Christmas owns us; we do what it
wants, when it wants. Christmas is not a Christians-only holiday that can only
be properly celebrated a certain way. Christmas belongs to us all and we can
each simply make it what we need it to be. Johnson argues, taking a close look
at the history of the holiday, and the social, political and economic issues
that surround it, can turn the tables and allow us to own Christmas once again.

 [themythsthatstolechris]  

Seven Misconceptions that Hijacked the Holiday (and How We Can Take It Back)

Twenty compelling stories, from Socrates to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, of heroes who
stood up against those claiming to know the will of God. From emperors
(Julian), to philosophers (Baruch Spinoza), to soldiers (Kemal Atatürk), to
novelists (Emile Zola), to lawyers (Clarence Darrow), to ordinary housewives
(Lucy Harris), a few brave souls have risked all rather than knuckle under to
the conventional religious wisdom of their day. Damned Good Company is truly a
Profiles in Courage for humanists.

 [cover_web]  

Twenty Heroes Who Bucked the God Experts

 

In this updated and expanded edition of his Ancient Myth and Modern Man,
religious scholar Larue explores the power of myth in today’s society. New
material shows how religious fundamentalists, charismatics, faith healers, and
religious psychics try to draw upon the myths of the ancient past to validate
their claims.

 
 
[ancientmythandmodernlife]
 

 Religious Scholar Larue Explores the Power of Myth in Today’s Society

 

This is the story of People of the State of Illinois ex rel. Vashti McCollum v.
Board of Education of School District No. 71, Champaign County, Illinois, et
al. The action arose as a challenge to a program of sectarian religious classes
held in public school buildings on school time. Today the chief significance of
the McCollum case is that it was the first of series of cases brought under the
First and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. Constitution where a practice by a
local or state governmental body was actually held to violate the First
Amendment's "establishment of religion" clause.

 [the]  

The Inside Story of the Supreme Court's Precedent-Setting McCollum Ruling

 

In today’s era of radical right-wing politics, we must never forget how things
were during the turbulent McCarthy era. Corliss Lamont lived through it and
reveals how Congress trampled on American freedoms. He includes his own battles
with Senator Joseph McCarthy, the State Department, the CIA, the FBI, and the
U.S. Postal Service. His landmark court cases continue to buttress the rights
of us all.

 

Foreword by Bertrand Russell

 
[freedom]
 

Corliss Lamont and the McCarthy Era

 

Gerald A. Larue chronicles the significant role played by freethought and
humanism in both ancient and modern societies and shows how history reveals
religion to be a constant persecutor of all who question its dogmas. This study
is a celebration of the people who made possible the liberties we enjoy today.

 

 [freethought]  

Freethought Across the Centuries

Roy Speckhardt, American Humanist Association executive director, lays out how
and why people can lead moral and ethical lives without belief in a higher
power. But this updated and comprehensive overview of humanism explains that
merely abandoning traditional religious faith is just one step on a path to a
better way of thinking. This books shows how to take the next step with the
empathy and activism that characterize humanism today.

 [ccth-cover-1200-updat]  

Humanism Doesn't Have a Bible. But If It Did, This Would Be It!

"Humanism as the Next Step by Lloyd and Mary Morain is a brilliant,
down-to-earth guide to the Humanist philosophy. It is totally positive and
deeply inspiring, written in a style that is easy to read and to understand.
This book gives a great introductory overview for the general reader, but even
more, its joyful presentation will surely be a delight for the newly aware
Humanist who's just discovered that there's actually a name for the
ethic-oriented, human-focused, nonreligious lifestance which they cherish."

--Beth Lamont

  
[humanism]
 

A Brilliant, Down-to-Earth Guide for the Humanist Philosophy

Lyle Simpson’s Why Was I Born? explores the psychology underlying religious
belief, through the prism of Abraham Maslow’s "Hierarchy of Needs" and the
Meyer-Briggs personality typology. Rejecting the easy answers of our society,
Simpson addresses profound questions like: Why are we here?; How do face our
own death?; Why do we need others?; and How do we make our lives significant?
from a humanist psychological standpoint, making vastly more sense than anyone
who tries to answer these questions through our cultural traditions.

  
[wwib]
 

Why Was I Born?

A mind-bending stroll through the holiday calendar, offering the unique
insights of a nonbeliever. The best way to think about the Fourth of July? Why,
the story of boxer Jack Johnson, of course! Valentine's Day? Forever connected
with the Muslim persecution of author Salman Rushdie. Thanksgiving? Instead of
an imaginary tale of Indians, there's a real American event that we used to
celebrate and ought to again. Then there's the Big One: Christmas itself.

  
[holidaysandother]
 

A Mind-Bending Stroll Through the Holiday Calendar

Bringing discoveries in anthropology and evolutionary psychology to bear, the
former ambassador to Nepal and the chair of the American Humanist Association’s
Advisory Board makes the case here for social evolution in a humanist
direction.

  
[one]
 

A Case for Social Evolution in a Humanist Direction

The latest edition of this refreshingly positive book, celebrated for its
gender-neutral language, draws from great philosophers and scientists
throughout the ages to discuss how humanism fits into the big picture. Lamont's
optimistic spirit comes through loud and clear as he assures readers that "this
life is all and enough."

  
[the]
 

The Philosophy of Humanism

This book is written to provide a quick overview of the philosophy of Humanism
for the average Joe or Jane. I don’t care which actually because I’m a Humanist
and I don’t judge people based on their gender or skin color or any other
arbitrary characteristic. So, let’s revise that introductory statement. This
book is for the average human, regardless of his or her name, who wants to
learn more about Humanism.

  
[jenhancockcover]
 

A Short Guide to the Philosophy of Humanism

In this deeply revealing and engaging autobiography, Herb Silverman tells his
iconoclastic life story. He takes the reader from his childhood as an Orthodox
Jew in Philadelphia to his adult life in the heart of the Bible Belt, where he
became a legendary figure within America's secular activist community.
Silverman’s humor will charm believers and nonbelievers alike, and will lead
all those who care about the separation of church and state to give thanks.

 

  
[candidate]
 

A Jewish Atheist for Governor of South Carolina???

George Erickson - pilot, bricklayer, philanthropist, dentist, welder and author
of the pro-science, best seller True North, and Back to the Barrens: On the
Wing with da Vinci and Friends plus Time Traveling with Science and the Saints,
returns with Eyes Wide Open, a semi-autobiographical anthology of new and
published fiction and non-fiction based on a life that began without religion,
became deeply involved, but returned to rationality as president of the
Minnesota Humanists and a former director of the American Humanist Association,
Washington, DC.

 

 
[ewo-front]
 

Eyes Wide Open

Children have the right to know the truth about how life evolved on earth. This
beautiful ebook shows children aged 4-7 how Charles Darwin’s evolutionary
theory of natural selection works, using easy words and colorful pictures they
can understand, but based on an actual scientific case study. Children will
also identify with Pepper’s social struggle, since self-esteem, bullying, and
being teased are recurring childhood themes. Children will see that sometimes
being different is what makes them amazing!

 
[cover]
 

Introduce Toddlers to the Wonders of Natural Selection

 

Cecil Bothwell, the first atheist to be elected in North Carolina to the
Asheville City Council, presents a riveting account of a deeply examined life
in Whale Falls: An Exploration of Belief and Its Consequences. Bothwell offers
culture-changing insight into the ramifications of our most deeply held
assumptions on everything from dietary choice to drug policy, from Biblical
inerrancy to domestic violence.

  
[whale]
 

Whale Falls

 

While Corliss Lamont's Philosophy of Humanism devotes a chapter to making a
naturalistic case for freedom of the will, this is Lamont’s complete book on
the subject in which he develops and expands all of his arguments and ties them
to the larger humanist discussion.

 
[freedom]
 

Freedom of Choice Affirmed

This is a classic compilation of over 450 classic statements supporting
church-state separation by Voltaire, Jefferson, Madison, Margaret Mead, Martin
Luther King Jr., philosophers, journalists, novelists, judges, anticlerical
European politicians, twenty-six presidents of the United States, and many
others. There are also quotes from major judicial decisions.

[great]  

Great Quotations on Religious Freedom

 

Attorney Robert Grant explains the humanistic public morality of the United
States as defined by laws and landmark court cases, explores the underlying
ethical principles of the United States Constitution and other historical
documents, and provides ethical tools for sorting out today’s complex social
questions and moral dilemmas.

 
[american]
 

American Ethics & the Virtuous Citizen:

Basic Principles

 

Well-grounded humanistic ethics are applied to specific dilemmas involving
beginning-of-life and end-of-life issues, homicide, capital punishment, war,
and social violence. With fairness to partisans on all sides of each question,
careful argumentation is provided that is backed by accurate historical and
legal scholarship.

 
[american]
 

American Ethics & the Virtuous Citizen: The

Right to Life

 

In his final work, the author provides the humanist moral grounding for the
liberties we hold dear, including speech, press, assembly, association, sexual
freedom, and the right to be free from arbitrary arrest. The book then broadens
the case socially to support rights to health care and a basic education as
well as the rights to marry and have children.

 
[american]
 

American Ethics & the Virtuous Citizen:

Blessings of Liberty

 

“Atheists and other nonbelievers are per se immoral. … Since God is the source
of all morality, it’s impossible for a nonbeliever to be a good person.” That’s
the conventional wisdom, especially among fundamentalist Christians. And it’s
utterly false. Authors David Orenstein and Linda Ford Blaikie disprove the
smear in the most persuasive possible way: by telling the stories of dozens of
real-life nonbelievers who devote their lives to doing good for others.

  
[godlessgracecover-final]
 

How Nonbelievers Are Making the World Safer, Richer and Kinder

In this deeply revealing and engaging autobiography, Herb Silverman tells his
iconoclastic life story. He takes the reader from his childhood as an Orthodox
Jew in Philadelphia to his adult life in the heart of the Bible Belt, where he
became a legendary figure within America's secular activist community.
Silverman’s humor will charm believers and nonbelievers alike, and will lead
all those who care about the separation of church and state to give thanks.

 

  
[candidate]
 

A Jewish Atheist for Governor of South Carolina???

 

The Prince of War: Billy Graham’s Crusade for a Wholly Christian Empire is the
first biography of the world’s most famous preacher to expose his unabashed
support for wars from Korea to Iraq. Author Cecil Bothwell’s extensive research
in the Billy Graham archives, the Library of Congress, and presidential
libraries reveals how Graham advocated genocide in Vietnam and told President
George H. W. Bush that Saddam was the Antichrist.

 
[the]  

The Prince of War

 

This informative pamphlet tells the fascinating story of the life and ideas of
the Unitarian minister who, shortly before World War I, became the person most
responsible for giving modern humanism its name and clarifying its major
tenets.

 
[johndietrich]
 

The Fascinating Story of a Unitarian Minister

 

Here the internationally famous exiled physician, feminist, humanist, human
rights activist, and novelist provides her memoir of growing up female in the
Muslim world. Published in 2002 to public acclaim across the spectrum, from
Elle magazine to USA Today, it tells the gripping and dramatic story of her
early life in Bangladesh, the nation that was once East Pakistan.

 [meyebela]  

Meyebela: My Bengali Girlhood

 

Faithful Catholic priest become atheist psychologist shows how he himself
shucked and how the reader can enjoy shucking childhood prejudices and
superstitions to thrill to rational friendliness in our pluralistic planetary
society. The psychologist author recognizes that each of us learned a lot of
traditions and beliefs when too young to evaluate them. Such prejudices are
very deeply ingrained into the subconscious. Therefore they are often most
difficult to overcome even in adult years and with further experience and
education.

 
[leap_of_honesty]
 

Priest to Atheist

 

The lives of women and girls in the Bible Belt are often shrouded in secrecy
and confined to the shadows. Now Tasha Golden’s collection of poetry, Once You
Had Hands, gives voice to the silence surrounding issues of domestic violence
and women’s subservience in the name of religion. In stunning language that is
delicate and raw, Golden draws on her family’s Tennessee roots, as well as the
distinctive experience of growing up in a conservative Christian culture. The
poems move the reader, sometimes to sadness and sometimes to anger, with the
disappointments of religion and its broken promises.

 
 
[tashagoldenbookcover]
 

Breaking the Silence of Women in the Bible Belt

 

Lucretius (ca. 55 BCE) left us the most extensive exposition of the happiness
philosophy of Epicurus we have remaining from the ancient world, a philosophy
mirrored by that of Persia's Omar Khayyám. W. H. Mallock brilliantly married
the two in 1990 by producing a short, poetic summary of each section of
Lucretius's On the Nature of Things, written in the same poetic meter as The
Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám.

 
 
[cover]
 

Lucretius on Life and Death

 

Stephen Perry manifests a poetry of collusion and surfeit, an inclusive
portrait (including his photographs) of a poet's mind working furiously in our
raw, post-postmodern dawns and gloamings. A maelstrom ride through religion,
philosophy, sexuality--in fact, all things human, where categories break down
and images meld into raw relationships with one another. One thinks of Rabelais
wrestling with Descartes somewhere backstage, behind the curtain. A profound
journey into the inner worlds that reside deeply within inner worlds.

 
 
[questions]
 

Boundary-Shattering Poetry by Stephen Perry

In this deeply revealing and engaging autobiography, Herb Silverman tells his
iconoclastic life story. He takes the reader from his childhood as an Orthodox
Jew in Philadelphia to his adult life in the heart of the Bible Belt, where he
became a legendary figure within America's secular activist community.
Silverman’s humor will charm believers and nonbelievers alike, and will lead
all those who care about the separation of church and state to give thanks.

 

  
[candidate]
 

A Jewish Atheist for Governor of South Carolina???

Nat Hentoff is one of America's most passionate and prominent writers about
civil liberties and civil rights. In Living the Bill of Rights, he has taken
what is too often thought of as an abstract issue and enlivened it by focusing
on representative individuals for whom the Constitution is a vital part of
life. As the late Supreme Court Justice William Brennan told Hentoff, Americans
need to know how "American liberties were won--and what it takes to keep them
alive."

 
[living]
 

Living the Bill of Rights

The distinguished historian from the University of Richmond traces the history
of church-state separation in the public school, explores the foundations of
the First Amendment and warns readers not to be deceived by the renewed
arguments for prayer in public schools.

 [public]  

Public Education and the Public Good

George Erickson - pilot, bricklayer, philanthropist, dentist, welder and author
of the pro-science, best seller True North, and Back to the Barrens: On the
Wing with da Vinci and Friends plus Time Traveling with Science and the Saints,
returns with Eyes Wide Open, a semi-autobiographical anthology of new and
published fiction and non-fiction based on a life that began without religion,
became deeply involved, but returned to rationality as president of the
Minnesota Humanists and a former director of the American Humanist Association,
Washington, DC.

 

 
[ewo-front]
 

Eyes Wide Open

Reading the published letters of one of the most prolific letter writers on
religious liberty can’t help but inspire and instruct others who want to get
their own letters published. These effective examples include topics pertaining
to the separation of church and state, religious liberty, reproductive freedoms
and civil liberties.

 [vox]  

Vox Populi

This is a classic compilation of over 450 classic statements supporting
church-state separation by Voltaire, Jefferson, Madison, Margaret Mead, Martin
Luther King Jr., philosophers, journalists, novelists, judges, anticlerical
European politicians, twenty-six presidents of the United States, and many
others. There are also quotes from major judicial decisions.

[great]  

Great Quotations on Religious Freedom

  

Lyle Simpson’s Why Was I Born? explores the psychology underlying religious
belief, through the prism of Abraham Maslow’s "Hierarchy of Needs" and the
Meyer-Briggs personality typology. Rejecting the easy answers of our society,
Simpson addresses profound questions like “Why are we here?”, "How Do We Face
Our Own Death?”,  and "How do We Make Our Lives Significant?" from a humanist
psychological standpoint, making vastly more sense than anyone who tries to
answer these questions through our cultural traditions.

 [wwib]  

Why Was I Born?

What is hope? What does it mean? How do we find it and will it make us happy?
Following her husband’s death on 9/11, Nikki Stern challenged herself to find
meaning, even as–especially as–a skeptic. Combining research and reflection,
she’s arrived at a version of hope that thrives not on certainty, but on
possibility. In a world in which gloomy forecasting abounds, Hope in Small
Doses is an anomaly: practical, good-natured, and ultimately uplifting.

 

  

A Deeply Moving Book Offering a Workable Blueprint for a Life Fully Lived

[hisd_cover]

The complete text of Thomas Jefferson's original cut-and-paste version of the
Gospels, portraying Jesus as a wise but strictly human teacher, deliberately
omitting what Jefferson called the "dross": the virgin birth, the miracles, the
resurrection, etc. Since Americans today embrace a wide variety of religious
belief, this update lists candidates for the "best" and "worst" excerpts from a
variety of scriptures, including the Hebrew Bible, the Qur'an, the
Bhagavadgita, Buddhist sutras, and the Book of Mormon.

  
[jefferson]
 

The Best and Worst of the World's Scriptures

  

In 1860, journalist William Henry Burr sat down with his Bible and began
compiling pairs of self-contradictory statements. The result was a timeless
classic.

 

Burr doesn't clutter the book with convoluted exegesis. He just lists the
quotations, letting them speak for themselves, and providing a rich arsenal of
material for arguing with any God expert: how could any deity have been
involved in the writing of such a jumble of confusion?

 

 
[burr-cover-final]
 

Self-Contradictions

of the Bible

 

In this updated and expanded edition of his Ancient Myth and Modern Man,
religious scholar Larue explores the power of myth in today’s society. New
material shows how religious fundamentalists, charismatics, faith healers, and
religious psychics try to draw upon the myths of the ancient past to validate
their claims.

 [ancientmythandmodernlife]  

Ancient Myth and Modern Life

  

Once one of America’s most influential Protestant denominations, the Unitarian
Universalist Association (UUA) has imploded over the past 40 years, shrinking
to 0.51% of the population. Why? Michael Werner ticks off the reasons, from a
fuzzy obsession with pluralism to a disdain for the Humanist values that drove
the UUA’s rise to prominence. “Follow the money,” Werner urges, as he analyzes
one policy failure after another. Werner offers not an obituary for the UUA,
but a prescription for recovery.

  
[regaining-balance-cover-]
 

The Evolution of the Unitarian Universalist Association

 

This book presents an exceptional and stimulating view of Judaism and what it
means to be Jewish. Instead of basing his arguments on blind faith and
quotations of sacred texts the author argues for a Judaism oriented by
humanistic values and personal freedom. In a series of short chapters the
reader will travel through Jewish history from biblical times to our days.

 [judiasm]  

Judaism for Everyone

  

Noted feminist Barbara G. Walker’s 22 new essays cover the spectrum, from “The
Islamic Holocaust” being perpetrated against women to the dizziness of
crystal-gazers in “Encountering the New Age.” Walker explains how religion has
been perverted from its naturalistic, feminine roots to a patriarchal orgy of
violence. In her conclusion, “Family and the Future,” the ever-upbeat Walker
imagines a return to the original, best traditions of religion as a metaphor
for the wonder of the universe.

 [walker_cover_final]
 

Noted Feminist Barbara G. Walker’s 22 New Essays

 

The eminent ancient Roman statesman and philosopher analyzes the positions of
the Stoic, Epicurean, and Academic schools on the existence and nature of the
gods, and whether they act in the interests of humankind. Then various methods
for divining the future are debunked, including astrology, which receives the
classic treatment.

 [the]  

The Nature of the Gods and On Divination

NASA scientist Reginald J. Exton shares succinctly the evidence that points to
the human origin of religions in Make the Break (If You Can). Exton gathers a
representative list of events, scientific observations, and religious
developments that lead the reader to the eventual realization that there is
voluminous evidence that humanity itself created gods and religions to shield
itself from the unknown.

 

 
 
[extoncover]
 

A Discussion on

Religious Beliefs

Why is “entropy” bad science? Is the universe a giant clockwork, or something
more wondrous? Is there a scientific force that even atheists can feel
spiritual about? This book will blow your mind!

Land and Jarman prove that you don’t have to give up on science to be truly
spiritual – you just have to get it right. And you don’t have to be ashamed of
your spiritual side if you want to live your life according to empirical
reality – you just have to revere the force in nature that really exists.

  
[cover_final]
 

A Stunning New Take On The Science vs. Spirituality Debate.

Pepper’s Special Wings shows children aged 4-7 how Charles Darwin’s
evolutionary theory of natural selection works, using easy words and colorful
pictures they can understand, but based on an actual scientific case study.

Children will also identify with Pepper’s social struggle, since self-esteem,
self-image, bullying, and being teased are recurring childhood themes. Children
will see that sometimes being different is what makes them amazing!

 
[cover]
 

Introduce Toddlers to the Wonders of Natural Selection

 

Carl Coon distills billions of years of natural and human history into a few
beautifully-written pages in his new book, A Short History of Evolution. Coon
demonstrates why there is no need to believe in any magical force at work to
explain how things came to be the way they are, and how everything has happened
in accordance with a natural order of change.

 

 [coon_cover_small]  

A Short History of Evolution

 

Recipient of 2010 Humanist Pioneer Award and a former citizen of China, Wendy
Liu presents 39 short essays, using 39 Chinese proverbs/sayings and 39 of her
experiences/observations, and shares with you her perceptions of America and
her search for an American identity, with a Chinese and nontheist, twist. Half
of the proceeds for the sale of each book will be donated directly to the
American Humanist Association!

 
[everything]
 

39 Short Essays Using 39 Chinese Proverbs/sayings

A graphic novel that explores evolution vs. creation and calls for an end to
the teaching of creationism in schools. It pans out to consider the negative
impacts of religion, and with the active support of the American Humanist
Association, demonstrates how a concern for humanism, science, and reasoned
logical thinking is crucial for the development of society.

 

 [978-1-78026-226-0]  

Goodbye God?

Becoming More Fully Human approaches Humanism primarily as a way of life rather
than as a philosophical perspective. Describing Humanism in positive terms, it
emphasizes what Humanism affirms rather than what it denies. It presents
religious Humanism as a personally satisfying and morally responsible way to
live, giving our lives meaning and purpose, hope and joy. Most importantly for
many readers, it offers practical advice about the qualities that enable one to
live well and explores Humanism's resources for living ethically.

  
[morefullyhuman]
 

Religious Humanism as a Way of Life

This short book, only 8,000 finely crafted words, focuses squarely on the
inherent irrationality of religion and reveals its utter irreconcilability with
science. Presenting secular humanism as an alternative worldview to religious
supernaturalism, it offers several "reconciliation theories" to people of
faith, forcing every reader to make a choice.

  
[reasonrev]
 

Atheism, Humanism, and the Collapse of Religion

In a provocative and positive response to the “new atheists,” the humanist
chaplain at Harvard makes a bold claim for what nontheists do share and
believe. And a worldview is offered that gets to the heart of humanism and its
positive advocacy of tolerance, community, morality, and good without having to
rely on a higher being.

 [good]  

A Bold Claim for What Nontheists Do Share and Believe

  

This narrative begins with a description of the human self in terms of a
naturalistic explanation of human nature and concludes by suggesting how we all
may enter into meaningful dialogue from the common conceptual ground that is
our shared humanity.

 [selfandtranscendenceco]  

Self and Transcendence

Have you ever wondered, "How can I know what to believe?" You will find an
answer to that question here: what it means to be a human being -- in other
words, what you and I share in common. If we will begin with what we share in
common, then we will find common cause and the means to trust and rely on one
another, all to the end that we all may have some share of the good life.

  
[vail]
 

Thus Let Me Live

The political scene is changing rapidly in America. The religious right is on
the defensive, acceptance of gay rights is at an all-time high, social
conservatives are struggling for relevance, and more Americans than ever
identify as nonreligious. Fighting Back the Right reveals a new alliance in the
making, a progressive coalition committed to fighting for rational public
policy in America and reversing the damage inflicted by decades of conservative
dominance.

 [niose]  

Fighting Back the Right

This section contains books not published by Humanist Press written by American
Humanist Association members and supporters.

What is hope? What does it mean? How do we find it and will it make us happy?
Following her husband’s death on 9/11, Nikki Stern challenged herself to find
meaning, even as–especially as–a skeptic. Combining research and reflection,
she’s arrived at a version of hope that thrives not on certainty, but on
possibility. In a world in which gloomy forecasting abounds, Hope in Small
Doses is an anomaly: practical, good-natured, and ultimately uplifting.

 

  

A Deeply Moving Book Offering a Workable Blueprint for a Life Fully Lived

[hisd_cover]
  

How to grieve and maintain your sanity. A rational and compassionate approach
to bereavement. Non-religious individuals who are experiencing grief need a
resource that they can turn to as they process their grief. They need a
resource that will help them cope, as Humanists, with the emotional trauma that
is the grieving process. This is that book.

 

 
[griefcovermed]  

The Humanist Approach to Grief and Grieving

  

This beautiful nontheistic wedding ceremony offers a welcome and poetic
alternative to traditional religious services. Featuring a selection of sonnets
and poetry, Lamont has devised a ceremony that is both beautiful and dignified,
respecting both the bride and groom. It serves well on its own or as a basis
for developing your own special ceremony.

 [a]  

A Humanist Wedding Service

  

Epicurus taught that our best purpose in life is not to please gods, but to be
happy. Which is not as easy as it sounds, since short-term pleasures and
selfishness create longer-term misery. Hiram Crespo presents practical advice –
everything from recipes to journaling habits to nurturing relationships – for a
“hedonic calculus”: how to live to achieve maximum happiness, not just at the
next meal but for the rest of our lives. Be smart about being happy!

 

  
[crespo_finalcover195x30]
 

Be Smart About

Being Happy

  

This 48-page paperback offers a dignified alternative to traditional religious
ceremonies. Lamont provides meditations and eloquent passages of prose and
poetry to express appreciation, grief, and farewell for the deceased. In the
quest for solace at a time of loss, one can turn to this nontheistic service
for comfort and security.

 [lamont_humanist]  

A Humanist Funeral Service

  

The Humanist Approach to Happiness is a book that basically says – here are
personal ethics, here is why they are important, and here is how you can apply
them to your daily life and why doing so will help you live a happier more
productive life. It isn’t a philosophy book so much as a book about the
pragmatic reasons for being an ethical, compassionate and responsible person.

 

 
[happycover]  

The Humanist Approach

to Happiness

 

When her seismic exposé of religious abuses lands on the best-seller list,
Professor Mira Veron becomes a target for religious extremists. With a
seductive born-again assassin tracking her every move, she meets up with a
publishing tycoon who is guarding a volatile secret. Under siege by forces seen
and unseen, she embarks on a desperate quest for answers. Fans of Dan Brown and
Minette Walters will enjoy this suspenseful exploration of secularism and
domestic terrorism in 21st century America.

 [wickedgodscover]  

A Suspenseful Exploration

of Religion and Politics

 

Kylie Moran confidently dispenses humanist advice to readers in her local
newspaper advice column, A Rational Woman. But when a shock turns her world
upside down, is humanist rationality enough to keep her going? Contrasting the
subtle stresses of 21st century marriage to unsubtle brutality of foreign
criminals, Susan Perry delivers a riveting account of how one humanist copes
with disaster without a God crutch to fall back on.

 
[kyliescover-ebooksmall1]  

The story of "A Rational Woman" columnist Kylie Moran

 

Chicago psychologist, Dr. Owen Ross, is a man who after enduring a lifetime of
personal pain realizes that his life has become empty and meaningless.
Depicting the toils of human existence within the decay of modern society, this
novel is a journey into the human soul, examining the greater questions of
authenticity, life and death, immortality, and the personal power of
transcendence.

 

 [wgwcover]  

Depicting the Toils of Human Existence This Novel is a Journey into the Human
Soul

  

Fourteen-year-old Charlene “Charlie” Whitestone has been left in the custody of
her grandfather, a charming religious fraud who inducts her into his various
enterprises. When he suddenly dies, Charlie is left alone to use her wits and
resourcefulness to take charge of her life. Soon a handsome cowboy has Charlie
performing staged “miracles,” plunging her deeper into a lucrative but
troubling web of deceit. A book for any adult who remembers the shock of
discovering that religion is not all it’s cracked up to be.

 [the]  

A Riveting Novel Featuring

a Girl Who Challenges

Religious Deception

 
 

The author of The Outcast Oracle delivers 23 stories dealing with the
metaphorical concept of fog as a state produced by grief, mental illness, love,
anger, religious fanaticism, dementia, pain, prejudice, or dreams and how the
human being refracts reality through these diffused prisms. Protagonists
struggle with physical and psychological distortions that lead them down
problematic paths, whether due to jealousy or desire in the case of lovers or
hypothermia experienced by a fallen mountain climber.

 
[fog_cover]
 

Collection of 23 Stories That Deal With the Metaphorical Concept of Fog

History

Humanism

Humor

Juvenile

Philosophy

Biography

Poetry

Politics

Psychology

Religion

Science

By AHA Members

Self-Help

Fiction

Advocating progressive values and equality for humanists, atheists, and
freethinkers
 

ABOUT THE AHA >>

 

WHAT IS HUMANISM>>

 

OUR WORK>>

 

NEWS>>

 

SUPPORT HUMANISM>>

[ahalogo]

Copyright © 2014

