bg image(images/wallgod.gif)
                  [h]ow many times have we heard it said, "Oh, Lord, give me a sign!" Alas, too
                  often the reply is vague and ambiguous: the phone rings at an opportune time, a
                  feather falls from out of the blue, a water stain appears that resembles a
                  religious image. We all want to know if God exists; maybe He just needs a
                  reliable method to let us know He's here.

                                                    The Yo-God
                                               [txt_god_detector22]
                        [detector_hand] gives God a way to send a simple,  [detector_face]
                                            unambiguous message of His
                                                    presence.

                                                   [wiredbanner]


                  ‚óèf we join together, perhaps God will hear our request and respond. Just take
                  these simple steps:

                  [handb] Purchase and register a Yo-God God Detector.

                  [handb] Set out your God Detector anywhere in your home, church, or office.

                          Offer a simple request or prayer that God reveal Himself through the
                  [handb] detector.

                  [handb] Check your God Detector daily or weekly for any indication of movement.

                  [handb] Report any movement of the detector at this web site.

                  [b]e sure to come back to check out our reports of God Detector movement, which
                  are sure to grow as the number of God Detectors increase  April, 2007, is
                  Yo-God's 5-year anniversary, and currently there are over 3,500 God Detectors
                  around the world! In any case, use our comments page to let us know your
                  thoughts about the God Detector.

                  And, now, you can send a specially designed God detector to your U.S.
                  Representative or Senator!

                  [y]ou can also contact the artist, Dean Booth, directly at deanbooth@yo-god.com
                  .


jordan 7 for the love of the game louis vuitton outlet lebron 12 all star
michael kors outlet jordan 10 lady liberty louis vuitton outlet jordan 7 ftlog
marvin the martian 7s jordan 7 marvin the martian jordan 5 metallic silver
jordan 4 oreo jordan 7 ftlog louis vuitton outlet Tom Brady Jersey women's
foamposites mirror teal 4s Russell Wilson Jersey jordan 10 chicago New England
Patriots Jersey jordan 4 teal oreo 4s marvin the martian 7s marvin the martian
7s oreo 4s jordan 10 bulls over broadway marvin the martian 7s chicago 10s
marvin the martian 7s nike kd vii aunt pearl foamposites metallic gold lebron
12 court vision teal 4s jordan 4 laster nike kd 7 wings Seahawks Jerseys cheap
Russell Wilson Jersey chicago 10s foamposites red october jordan 4 laster
Seahawks Jerseys cheap jordan 10 chicago foamposites red october jordan 4 teal
New England Patriots Jersey metallic silver 5s teal 4s foamposites red october
Tom Brady Jersey michael kors bags jordan 5 metallic silver foamposites
metallic gold teal 4s nike kd vii wings lebron 12 all star jordan 7 ftlog New
England Patriots for the love of the game 7s jordan 7 marvin the martian jordan
5 metallic silver lebron 12 court vision nike kd 7 aunt pearl New England
Patriots Jersey Seattle Seahawks lebron 12 all star jordan 3 jordan 7 for the
love of the game New England Patriots jersey sale New England Patriots jersey
foamposites red october nike kd 7 aunt pearl Seattle Seahawks Jerseys jordan 7
marvin the martian Tom Brady Jersey jordan 4 oreo jordan 4 teal for the love of
the game 7s bulls over broadway 10s metallic silver 5s jordan 5 metallic silver
jordan 4 teal
