Brad's Blog

Brad Reddekopp

Menu Skip to content

  • Home
  • About
  • Contact
  • Dog Stuff
  • GulliGo

Brad's Blog

Election 2015

Leave a reply

Nathan Cullen lawn sign

Yes, it’s true. I’ve abandoned my principles. I plan to vote in the next
Canadian federal election. That doesn’t mean I’m any less cynical about
electoral politics, though. If anything, it means I’m even more cynical.

I don’t care who wins as long as it’s not Stephen Harper. I don’t like or trust
either Justin Trudeau or Tom Mulcair or, respectively, the Liberals or the NDP.
It’s just that I dislike and distrust Harper and his Conservative cronies even
more. I’m sure that I’ll eventually come to loathe the man who takes his place
just as much but it will take the new guy some time to establish himself. So,
for a while, his influence and power will be less than Harper’s is now.  (Yes,
it will be a man. We all know that there is no chance that Elizabeth May will
be our next prime minister.)

In the riding in which I live, the non-Conservative candidate with the best
chance of winning is the NDP’s Nathan Cullen. So, on October 19, I’ll cast my
ballot for Cullen. I will try to console myself by thinking of it as a vote
against Harper.

However, for my friends who stand firm on refusing to vote, I offer support in
the form of this video I made some years ago:

Share
This entry was posted in General Grumpiness, Political Cynicism, Uncategorized
on October 5, 2015 by Brad.

My #XplornetSucks Story

Leave a reply
So, I’m trying to cancel our Xplornet account. We now have access to an
internet service that is faster and costs about a third as much. So, it’s time
for a change.I check the website, which provided an email address to use for
cancellations. I send the email, complete with all the relevant account
information. They email me back to inform me that I need to phone them. So, I
phone them.

Continue reading →

Share
This entry was posted in General Grumpiness, Tech on June 2, 2015 by Brad.

Cliff and the Skeena Running High

Leave a reply

20150521_161659

Share
This entry was posted in Photography on May 29, 2015 by Brad.

May 17, 2015 – spring photos

Leave a reply

Here are a few photos from today.

Old Hazelton in the evening. We were being tourists in our own town tonight.
    Old Hazelton in the evening. We were being tourists in our own town
    tonight.

The Skeena River is high. So far, though, it just looks like a normal spring
    run-off.
    The Skeena River is high. So far, though, it just looks like a normal
    spring run-off.

My Mongolian Cherries. I started with one plant and it spread.
    My Mongolian Cherries. I started with one plant and it spread.


My Little Azalea Bush. (It's not named "Iggy".)
    My Little Azalea Bush. (It’s not named “Iggy”.)


Share
This entry was posted in Photography on May 17, 2015 by Brad.

Oh my, let’s not be offensive!

Leave a reply

Some authors and cartoonists have objected to PEN giving the Freedom of
Expression Courage Award to Charlie Hebdo. Their reasoning seems to be that
Muslims are an oppressed minority and, therefore, making fun of their religion
is intolerance and/or bigotry.

No.

Continue reading →

Share
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on May 10, 2015 by Brad.

Hey, America, figure it out

2 Replies

Hey, America, you need to get this figured out.

Your police are killing your people in record numbers. The natural consequence
of this is that more of your people will start killing more of your police,
which will inevitably result in your police killing more of your people.

Do you see where I’m going with this?

Now, since I’m not American, you might say that it’s none of my business.
However, stupidity that happens south of the 49th parallel tends to creep north
of it, often at an alarming rate. So, please, see if you can get this figured
out really soon because the northern creep of this stupidity is already well
under way.

Share
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on April 26, 2015 by Brad.

Yet another hike in one of the same old places

Leave a reply

A few days ago, I went for a good long hike in one of my usual locations.  I
took some photos.

Continue reading →

Share
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on March 23, 2015 by Brad.

Homeopathy = nonsense

Leave a reply

Homeopathy is nonsense. There is no more scientific debate on that. The
evidence is clear.

I do understand that some people have subjective experiences that lead them to
believe in homeopathy. Some of these people are very smart and well educated
but they need to ask themselves why it is that, whenever homeopathy is tested
by methods that eliminate personal (subjective) bias, it utterly fails. Every
time!

Continue reading →
Share
This entry was posted in Activism, General Grumpiness, Obvious but I wanted to
say it anyway, Rational Skepticism on March 12, 2015 by Brad.

Iggy Pop is not ashamed.

Leave a reply
Iggy Pop is not ashamed.

Iggy Pop is not ashamed.

Share
This entry was posted in Uncategorized on February 25, 2015 by Brad.

On Sam Harris on the Chapel Hill murders

Leave a reply

http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/the-chapel-hill-murders-and-militant-atheism

In the audio post linked above, Sam Harris addresses the accusation that he and
other ”new atheists” are somehow responsible for the Chapel Hill murders.  He
points out some of the same things that I have but perhaps more eloquently. 
There is nothing inherent in atheism that should lead anyone to commit such
atrocities.  There are no atheist “holy books” at all and nothing in the works
of any well-known “new atheist” thinkers that should reasonably be seen as
promoting murder.  Atheism differs significantly from the major monotheistic
religions in that respect.

Continue reading →

Share
This entry was posted in Antitheism, Atheism on February 17, 2015 by Brad.

Post navigation

← Older posts
Search for: [                    ] [Search]
Recent Posts

  • Election 2015
  • My #XplornetSucks Story
  • Cliff and the Skeena Running High
  • May 17, 2015 – spring photos
  • Oh my, let’s not be offensive!

Recent Comments

  • Enderdog on “Scientism”
  • qwerty on “Scientism”
  • Brad on Hey, America, figure it out
  • Francois Tremblay on Hey, America, figure it out
  • Brad on The Bible and Slavery

Archives

  • October 2015
  • June 2015
  • May 2015
  • April 2015
  • March 2015
  • February 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • October 2014
  • September 2014
  • August 2014
  • July 2014
  • June 2014
  • May 2014
  • April 2014
  • March 2014
  • February 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • August 2013
  • July 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • March 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • December 2012
  • October 2012
  • September 2012
  • June 2012
  • May 2012
  • April 2012
  • March 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • August 2011
  • June 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011

Categories

  • Activism
  • Antitheism
  • Atheism
  • Books
  • Experiments
  • General Grumpiness
  • Kettle vs. Microwave
  • Meeka
  • Music
  • Obvious but I wanted to say it anyway
  • Personal
  • Philosphy
  • Photography
  • Political Cynicism
  • Rational Skepticism
  • Tech
  • The web site
  • Uncategorized

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

My Other Sites

  • Axes of Ego: abasement banned My band’s web site
  • The Blasphemy Store Get your blasphemy here! Politics? Religion? You’re not
    impressed by cow pies and you’re not afraid to say so.

Proudly powered by WordPress
