  • Patheos Labs
  • Patheos Press
  • Shop

[patheos-logo-edited]

  • Atheist Channel
  • Blogs
  • More Channels
  • Public Square
  • NewsWatch
  • Book Club
  • Religion Library
  • Store

  • Home
  • Atheist Channel
  • Friendly Atheist

[Search] [                    ]
Friendly Atheist

You can be skeptical and friendly at the same time.

Get Patheos Atheist Newsletters [ENTER E-MAIL ADDRESS] [] 
Follow Patheos
Atheist:

● ● ●

  • Home
  • Ask Richard
  • Podcasts
  • Speaking
  • Contributors
  • Media
  • Contact/Submissions
  • Books

Restaurant Manager Sends Note to Local Pastor After Waiter Gets a Jesus
Pamphlet Instead of a Tip

January 23, 2016 by Hemant Mehta Leave a Comment

Last week, Rachel posted about Garrett Wayman, a 17-year-old waiter in Kansas,
who was thrilled to find a $20 tip at one of his table… only to discover that
it was fake. Instead of cash, he got a message telling him to accept Jesus.

                                      Tip

Penny Craver, the general manager of a North Carolina restaurant called Dish,
has seen the same thing happening to some of her teenage staffers. One of them
had received multiple pamphlets, all from the same church. That’s why she
decided to do something about it. Craver looked up the church whose URL was
included on the pamphlets — Harbor Baptist Church in Charlotte — and sent
Pastor Ken Simmons this message:

[Read more...]

Filed Under: General Leave a Comment

Todd Starnes, Who Doubted Donald Trump’s Faith on Thursday, Says We Shouldn’t
Doubt Trump’s Faith

January 23, 2016 by Hemant Mehta Leave a Comment

If Donald Trump is as pious as he claims to be, he’s doing a horrible job of
winning over the Republican Party’s Christian base.

He bungled a Bible verse, blamed a Christian leader for the error, said he
doesn’t ask God for forgiveness for anything, swears in speeches, and called
the communion wafer a cracker.

No wonder a lot of conservatives are calling Trump’s Christianity into
question. But not Fox News’ Todd Starnes. Instead, Starnes is lashing out
against conservatives who doubt Trump’s faith. Because if Trump says he’s
religious, who are we to judge what’s in his heart?

                                  StarnesFox


[Read more...]

Filed Under: General, Politics Leave a Comment

Kansas Senate Leader Bans Women from Wearing “Low-Cut Necklines and
Mini-Skirts” at Hearings

January 23, 2016 by Hemant Mehta Leave a Comment

Because there are no other problems in Kansas, State Senator Mitch Holmes has
decided to tackle the real issue affecting people in the state.

He wants women who testify in front of the Senate Ethics and Elections
Committee (which he chairs) to cover themselves up. He issued an 11-point code
of conduct and Item 2 on that list focused on what people could wear. He wants
“professional attire,” which might be fine, but he made sure to spell that out
in detail for the ladyfolk:

                             shutterstock_1445149


[Read more...]

Filed Under: Feminism, General, Politics Leave a Comment

It Looks Like the Entire Football Team Has Been in These Shoes

January 23, 2016 by Hemant Mehta Leave a Comment

Before you watch this pro-abstinence video, I just want you to remember one
thing.

There exists someone who wrote this script and thought, “Damn. This is really
gonna make people think.”

                                AbstinenceShoes


[Read more...]

Filed Under: General, Humor, Love/Sex Leave a Comment

I Guess CNN Means Jesus is One of the More Recent Fairy Tales

January 23, 2016 by Hemant Mehta Leave a Comment

The other day, CNN published an article about how fairy tales might be older
than we think. While they grew in popularity in the 1800s, they may have
actually spread thousands of years earlier (but never written down).

But reader Daryl noticed an interesting teaser for the story on CNN’s front
page:

                                  CNNTeasers


[Read more...]

Filed Under: General Leave a Comment

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • …
  • 4375
  • Next Page>>

Subscribe by email to Friendly Atheist

[ENTER E-MAIL ADDRESS] [*] []

 

 

I’m on the Interwebs.

Follow Us on FacebookFollow Us on TwitterFollow Us on PinterestFollow Us on
YouTubeFollow Us on RSSFollow Us on TumblrFollow Us on Patreon

Popular at Patheos Atheist

 
Sarah Palin Blames President Obama for Her Son’s Domestic Violence Arrest
 
Professional League of Legends to get its first female and transgender player.
 
Satanic Temple’s Seven Tenets Are Morally Superior To Ten Commandments
 
AZ Columnist: Atheists are smelly, thoughtless, intolerant, and annoying
[Search this blog... ][Search]
                                 [Patreon170x]
                         Support this site on Patreon!

                                 [FriendlyAth]
                    Check out our podcast! (RSS feed here)

Buy Hemant’s Books!

[YoungAtheis]
[TheFriendly]
[ISMSOE-Smal]
[ISoldMySoul]

Categories

[Select Category                   ]

Archives

[Select Month  ]

Trending at Patheos Atheist

  •  
    Snow is Wonderful Enough or “Why Add God to the Snow?” (Rational Doubt)
  •  
    God sending a message to the March for Life. (What Would JT Do?)
  •  
    Worshipping in Heavy Metal Heaven (A Tippling Philosopher)
  •  
    Trump: "I could shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any voters";
    Supporters... (barrierbreaker)
  •  
    Restaurant Manager Sends Note to Local Pastor After Waiter Gets a Jesus...
    (Friendly Atheist)
  •  
    Christian Abstinence Video Compares Sexually Active Women To Worn Out...
    (Progressive Secular Humanist)
  •  
    Todd Starnes, Who Doubted Donald Trump's Faith on Thursday, Says We
    Shouldn't... (Friendly Atheist)
  •  
    On Hugh Jackman, and Surprise Christians / Believers (A Tippling
    Philosopher)

Recent Comments


Follow Patheos on

[fb] [tw] [rs]
Sign up for the Patheos newsletter [ENTER E-MAIL ADDRESS] [] 
[footer-logo]

  • About Patheos
  • How to Advertise
  • Premium Content
  • Sponsor a Book Club
  • Patheos Press

Faith Channels

  • Atheist
  • Buddhist
  • Catholic
  • Evangelical
  • Hindu
  • Jewish

  • Mormon
  • Muslim
  • Pagan
  • Progressive Christian
  • Spirituality

Resources

  • Blogs
  • Columns
  • Religion Library
  • Compare Religions
  • Topics
  • Public Square

  • Book Club
  • Entertainment
  • Faith and Work
  • Seeker Resources
  • Family Resources
  • Preaching Resources

Connect

  • Follow Us on Facebook
  • Follow Us on Twitter
  • Subscribe to RSS Feeds
  • Contact Us

Copyright 2008-2015, Patheos. All rights reserved.      Terms of Service  | 
Patheos Privacy Policy  | Website Development By Patheos Labs

[p] *
Quantcast
CLOSE | X

  • [*]Atheist Newsletter (weekly)
  • [ ]Pan Patheos Newsletter (biweekly)
  • [*]Friendly Atheist Digest

[ENTER E-MAIL ADDRESS] []

 

 

HIDE | X

  • [*]Atheist Newsletter (weekly)
  • [ ]Pan Patheos Newsletter (biweekly)
  • [*]Friendly Atheist Digest

[ENTER E-MAIL ADDRESS] []

 

