IFLScience
[ai]
[ai]

Search

Search
[find]
[p]
Follow @IFLScience

  • Space

    Astronomers Claim To Have Found Enormous Invisible Structures Hiding In The
    Milky Way

    [Milky]
  • Space

    Astronomers Think They've Discovered A Neptune-Sized Ninth Planet Beyond
    Pluto

    [planet_9_art_1_]
  • Space

    New Star Constellation Named After David Bowie

    [bowie]
  • Health and Medicine

    Man Flu Might Actually Be Real After All

    [shutterstock_180003065]
  • Plants and Animals

    Zoo Names Newborn Penguin "Bowie"

    [bowie-penguin]

Space

Life Could Exist On Planets Around Black Holes, Claims Paper

[shutterstock_351719774] Photo credit: Vadim Sadovski/Shutterstock

When you think of black holes, you probably don’t think of them being very
friendly to life. With an event horizon beyond which not even light can escape,
and surrounded by a swirling, superheated disk of dust and gas, they certainly
don’t seem very habitable.

But a group of researchers has claimed that certain black holes may have
conditions that would mean that any orbiting planets could be capable of
supporting life. It’s a stretch, sure, and no black hole planets have actually
been found yet – but it’s an interesting theory nonetheless.

  • Read full story Life Could Exist On Planets Around Black Holes, Claims
    Paper
  • Comments

Space

Scott Kelly Celebrates 300th Day In Space With Microgravity Water Ping Pong

[scottkelly_0] Photo credit: NASA Johnson/YouTube

Scott Kelly has been on the International Space Station (ISS) for over 300 days
straight, nearing the end of his One-Year Mission.

As a little celebration of his extensive residency onboard the ISS, NASA
has released a video of Kelly playing around with some hydrophobic, or
water-repelling, ping pong paddles and a ball of water in microgravity. The
video is filmed in 4K quality, so make sure you turn up those YouTube settings
under the cog on the right of the player.  

  • Read full story Scott Kelly Celebrates 300th Day In Space With Microgravity
    Water Ping Pong
  • Comments

The Brain

DARPA's Neural Interface Will Let Brains And Computers "Communicate"

[shutterstock_254289394] Photo credit: What's on your mind? Mopic/Shutterstock

The U.S. military’s scientific and technological wing, the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency (DARPA), is tasked with predicting and constructing
the future. Robotic soldiers, artificial intelligence (AI), and “vampire drones
” that disappear in sunlight have all been in development for some time.

  • Read full story DARPA's Neural Interface Will Let Brains And Computers
    "Communicate"
  • Comments

Technology

New Lithium Battery Is Five Times Better Than Current Ones

[shutterstock_108799907] Photo credit: Could Lithium-ion batteries soon become
a thing of the past? anaken2012/Shutterstock

Anyone with a smartphone has had battery woes. It might be constant poor
performances or shutting off when we need it the most. We could all do with
better batteries, and now researchers might have developed something of use.

  • Read full story New Lithium Battery Is Five Times Better Than Current Ones
  • Comments

Plants and Animals

Tegu Lizards Heat Up During Mating Season

[TOP] Photo credit: A thermal image of a tegu lizard taken at 6 a.m. inside its
burrow. Glenn J. Tattersall

Like most reptiles, tegu lizards (Salvator merianae) are consistently
ectothermic: They can’t sustain a body temperature that’s substantially higher
than the ambient temperature. But researchers studying these large, 2-kilogram
(4-pound) lizards discovered that tegu nighttime body temperatures are elevated
up to 10ºC (50ºF) during mating season. The findings, published in Science
Advances this week, hint at the origins of warm-bloodedness, or endothermy. 

  • Read full story Tegu Lizards Heat Up During Mating Season
  • Comments

  • older posts
  •  

Subscribe to

Choose your poison

  • Editor's Blog
  • Environment
  • Technology
  • Space
  • Health and Medicine
  • The Brain
  • Plants and Animals
  • Physics
  • Chemistry

[ai]

Popular Posts

  • [shutterstock_8753]
    Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn Are About To Align Space
  • [2013_class_of_NAS]
    50 Percent Of NASA's Latest Class Of Astronauts Is Female Space
  • [Periodic-Table-Ba]
    Teach Kids Chemistry With This Homemade Periodic Table Battleship Game 
    Chemistry
  • [owl]
    Ridiculously Photogenic Owl Caught On Traffic Camera Plants and Animals

IFLScience Week in Science Newsletter

[                    ]
[Sign up]

Get Weekly Science Coverage!

[ai]

Connect with Us

Facebook Twitter Google Plus

[ai]

Get the newsletter

[                    ]
[Sign up]

Get Weekly Science Coverage!

Follow @IFLScience

  • home
  • contact
  • Advertising
  • Privacy Policy
  • Terms of Use

