Illuminutti

Where critical thinking is critical to thinking

[fb-pattern]

  • 9/11
      □ 9/11: Were Explosives Used?
  • About Me
  • Alex Jones
      □ 5 things I’ve noticed about… Alex Jones
      □ Alex Jones Explains How Government “Weather Weapon” Could Have Been
        Behind Oklahoma Tornado
      □ Alex Jones Y2K
      □ Alex Jones, moron extraordinaire, strikes again!!!!
      □ Alex Jones: What Does He Believe?
      □ Debunked: The DHS Ordered 21.6 Million Rounds Of Ammo
      □ Forty-Five Failed Alex Jones Predictions
      □ Inside of Alex Jones’s head ‘like Hitler chatting to Yosemite Sam’
      □ Was Alex Jones an alarmist 13 years ago or is he an alarmist today?
      □ Yes, Alex Jones Is Still Nuts. Want Proof?
  • Ancient Aliens Debunked
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 1
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 2
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 3
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 4
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 5
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 6
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 7
      □ Ancient Aliens Debunked – Part 8
  • ChemTrails
      □ A Million Poisoning Planes
      □ Debunked: ChemTrails and ChemClouds
      □ Kill ChemTrails With Vinegar!!!!!
  • David Icke
      □ David Icke: Methods Of A Madman
  • Freemasons & Satan
  • Global Warming
      □ Global Warming: I Have Questions
      □ Global Warming: Heads they win, tails you lose.
      □ About those 97% of climate scientists . . .
      □ In Search of … The Coming Ice Age
      □ Another Ice Age? (June 24, 1974 – Time Magazine)
      □ Global Warming: Why The IPCC sees exactly what it’s looking for
      □ The Cooling World (April 28, 1975 – Newsweek Magazine)
      □ 95% of Climate Models Agree: The Observations Must be Wrong
      □ Global Warming: What Correlation?
      □ Al Gore’s Global Warming and Climate Change Game!
      □ Global Warming: Pop! Goes the Weasels!
  • illumiCorp
  • James Randi
      □ Psychic Investigator – Mediums
      □ Psychic Investigator – Astrology
      □ Psychic Investigator – Psychic Surgery
      □ Psychic Investigator – Dowsing
      □ Psychic Investigator – New Age
      □ Psychic Investigator – Psychometry & Graphology
      □ Secrets of the Psychics
  • LoOsE ScReWs
      □ The color of Mars is a government coverup!
  • Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) Articles
      □ Can i get some walk with all that talk?
      □ Debunked: Chemtrails Are Patently True
      □ Face Off (Prosopagnosia)
      □ Fool’s Gold
      □ Pssssst! Hey You! Can You Keep A Bilderberg Secret?
      □ Rhine Whine
      □ Same Sh**, Different Year
      □ The Batman/Sandy Hook Delusion
      □ Was Alex Jones an alarmist 13 years ago or is he an alarmist today?
      □ Was JFK assassinated because of Executive Order 11110?

The ugly side of the “chemtrail” conspiracy

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 21, 2016
Posted in: ChemClouds, ChemTrails, Conspiracy, Geoengineering. Tagged:
Chemtrail, Chemtrail Conspiracy, Chemtrail conspiracy theory, chemtrail theory,
ChemTrails, conspiracies, conspiracists, Conspiracy, conspiracy theories,
conspiracy theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy theory, Eric Sorensen,
Facebook, Meteorologist, Meteorologist Eric Sorensen, The Eric Factor, WQAD,
WQAD.com. Leave a comment

The ugly side of crazed conspiracists has reared it’s ugly head again with
death threats to another meteorologist. Read about it below. – MIB

            ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Eric SorensenBy Meteorologist Eric Sorensen via WQAD.com

Yesterday, a man called local talk radio with a report of chemicals being
sprayed by planes overhead. With no credible evidence whatsoever, the report
went on the air to anyone who was listening without any discussion on the
subject.

chemtrail dog_300pxAs a Meteorologist, I’m conflicted hearing this. On one
side, much like climate change, I want to steer clear of such a divisive,
political subject. But the other side of me says, as a degreed Meteorologist I
owe my viewers and fans accurate science information.

Anyone who knows me understands I am a lighthearted person. I believe you can
have fun while doing hard work, even if that means you’re building a deck,
driving a truck, or studying the weather. But I struck a nerve when I posted a
video on Facebook about the gentleman who called into local talk radio. I
reiterated that the “chemtrails” were actually condensation from hot jet
engines, ending dramatically with “be afraid, be very afraid.” Because that’s
what the alarmists who believe in the conspiracy are hoping more people do.

[ . . . ]

Within minutes, the comments quickly turned hateful and downright angry. One
poster wished that my family be poisoned and that a brick be thrown through my
head. Outrageous! Especially since the hateful, hurtful words weren’t coming
from just one person. There are dozens and dozens of people who believe I am
paid by the government, lying when I cast doubt on the conspiracy theory. And a
surprising number of people actually wish some sort of harm.

Continue Reading @ WQAD.com . . .

Visit Eric Sorensen’s chemtrails facebook thread . . .

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

10 Scary Facts About Mind-Control

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 18, 2016
Posted in: Brain Works, Brainwash, Conspiracy, Government, Mind Control,
Psychology. Tagged: and behavio, brainwashing, cia, critical thinking skills,
cults, DARPA, Emotions, Frank Olson, Hypno mugging, Hypnosis, indoctrination,
Judas Priest, lobotomy, LSD, Mind-Controlled Delusions, MK Ultra, Moonies
church, psychological disorders, Psychosurgery, Scopolamine, sensory
deprivation, sleep deprivation, stimoceiver, subliminal messages, The Devil’s
Breath, The Remote Control Bull, thoughts, Toxoplasma Gondii, U.S. government,
ultrasound, Ultrasound Soldiers, youtube. Leave a comment

More information in the video description.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Most Plausible Apollo Moon Landing Conspiracy Ever Devised

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 16, 2016
Posted in: Conspiracy, Cover-up, Government, Hoax, Moon Landing, NASA. Tagged:
Apollo, Brian Benchoff, cia, conspiracies, conspiracists, Conspiracy,
conspiracy theories, conspiracy theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy
theory, faked moon landings, Hackaday, LSD, Manhattan Project, MK Ultra, Moon
Landing, Moon landing conspiracy theories, moon landing denier, moon landing
hoax, nasa, Sirhan Sirhan, Ted Kaczynski, Tuskegee, Watergate, youtube. Leave a
comment

moon_dog_600px
by Brian Benchoff via Hackaday

nasa-moon-hoaxThe Internet is polluted with craziness, and there is no better
example than YouTube. If you’ve ever wondered what would happen when you give
everyone on the planet the power to show everyone else on the planet their
innermost thoughts, desires, and insane ramblings, you need only look at
YouTube.

One of the biggest offenders of incoherent ramblings is the subject of
spaceflight. Simply search ‘space shuttle’ on YouTube, and you’ll find
accusations of the crew of Columbia being abducted by aliens. Crazy,
incoherent, and somewhat insulting. Accusations of a moon landing conspiracy
are unavoidable in the ‘related videos’ section and are similarly filled with
videos from people with either a tenuous grasp of reality or too much time on
their hands.

A broken clock is right twice a day, a broken calendar is right every
twenty-eight years or so, and every once in a while, simply from the volume of
videos on the subject, one conspiracy theorist will present a new and novel
idea. Here we present perhaps the only moon landing conspiracy theory that
makes sense, is consistent with physical laws, and that may actually be true.

Comparing other government conspiracies

According to moon landing conspiracy theorists, President Nixon was the head of
several vast government conspiracies. The largest conspiracy by several orders
of magnitude – six missions to the surface of the moon involving 400,000 of
contractors and government employees – is the only conspiracy that would
succeed.

According to moon landing conspiracy theorists, President Nixon was the head of
several vast government conspiracies. The largest conspiracy by several orders
of magnitude – six missions to the surface of the moon involving 400,000 of
contractors and government employees – is the only conspiracy that would
succeed.

One of the best ways to figure out what it would take to pull off a project is
to compare it to earlier, similar projects. If you’re building a 100-storey
skyscraper and need a good idea of how long construction will take, just look
at how long it took to build the last 100-storey skyscraper. If you want to
build a dam and wonder how much it will cost, just look at earlier, similar
dams that used the same construction methods and materials.

The Apollo moon landing conspiracy contends that 400,000 government workers and
contractors would need to keep quiet, and no inquisitive journalists would be
out in the trenches, digging for the truth. This government conspiracy would
ostensibly be headed by none other than Richard Nixon, and fortunately we have
a pretty good analog to compare a moon landing conspiracy to other Nixon-era
conspiracies. Watergate-gate, with far fewer people involved, was found out. It
strains credibility that a conspiracy many orders of magnitude larger would not
be uncovered.

Additionally, there are many other nefarious activities sponsored by the US
government that have been made public. The MK Ultra experiments dosed hundreds
of people including Ted Kaczynski and Sirhan Sirhan with LSD. Not all of the
records were destroyed, though, and the entire experiment was disclosed in 1977
with a FOIA request. The US Public Health Service infected people with
syphilis, and the CIA is responsible for overthrowing dozens of governments
around the world. All of these conspiracies were eventually found out. The very
idea that researchers, academics, and journalists are unable to pierce the veil
of a moon landing conspiracy over forty years strains credibility.

There is one government project on the scale of the Apollo moon landing that
was, for a time, secret: the Manhattan Project. With perhaps 300,000 people
involved in the creation of the first atomic bombs, it is the only secret
government project with the same scale as NASA in the 1960s. Here, history
tells us that secrets that big don’t stay secret for long, with the Soviet
Union receiving plans for atomic weapons before the end of the war.

In comparing the scale of an Apollo moon landing conspiracy to other, real
conspiracies committed by the US government, the argument completely falls
apart. The Tuskegee syphilis experiments involved perhaps a few hundred people.
The MK Ultra experiments perhaps a few thousand. Watergate-gate involved less
than one hundred. An Apollo moon landing conspiracy would involve nearly a half
million over the course of ten years, yet moon landing conspiracists say the
largest conspiracy of all time would be the one that succeeded. It doesn’t
strain credibility – it completely destroys it.

Continue Reading @ Hackaday – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Palmistry and Its Practical Uses

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 15, 2016
Posted in: Fun Stuff, Humor, Pseudoscientific, Quackery. Tagged: Myles Reviews,
palm, Palmistry, Phrenology, physiognomy, pseudo-science, Quackery, science,
youtube. Leave a comment

By Myles Power via YouTube

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Vanishing

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 15, 2016
Posted in: Debunk, Educational, Fun Stuff, Geeky Stuff, Illusions, Magic,
Magician, Optical Illusion, Perception, Uncategorized. Tagged: illusion, magic,
quirkology, tricks, youtube. 1 Comment

By Quirkology via YouTube

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Chemophobic Food Babe

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 12, 2016
Posted in: Debunk, Educational, Food Babe, Fraud, Health, Pseudoscientific,
Quackery, Science. Tagged: Food Babe, Myles Power, youtube. Leave a comment

By Myles Power via YouTube

    The food babe has basically made a very comfortable living for herself from
    searching for a chemical used in food manufacture that also has another use
    in industry, and telling people to not eat it because……reasons. In this
    video I talk about her 2013 campaign to stop Subway using a compound known
    as azodicarbonamide in the production of bread.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

DEBUNKED: UFO Over India

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 12, 2016
Posted in: Aliens, Debunk, Educational, Fun Stuff, Geeky Stuff, Hoax, UFO.
Tagged: CGI, compositing, Computer-generated imagery, debunk, hoax, India,
special effects, UFO, Unidentified flying object, visual effects, youtube. 
Leave a comment

By CaptainDisillusion via YouTube

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Why Your Detox Is Bullsh*t

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 8, 2016
Posted in: Alternative Medicine, Health, Medical, Pseudoscientific, Quackery,
Science. Tagged: BlueprintCleanse, cleanses, colon cleanse, Cosmopolitan, Detox
, green smoothies, Green Supreme, juice cleanse, Juice From The Raw, JUS by
Julie, smoothies, Suja Juice, toxic chemicals. Leave a comment

Green Juice

Don’t go on a juice cleanse. And please​ don’t do a colon cleanse.

Via: Cosmopolitan

detoxIt seems everyone’s on a detox for the new year, and don’t we all need
one? Our bodies are full of toxic chemicals. It would be great if we could just
purify ourselves with a few smoothies, right?

Tough luck. Detoxes are bullshit.

It’s easy to get drawn into the marketing of detoxes or cleanses (the two are
basically interchangeable these days, both terms are used by those who shill
them); they’re everywhere, doesn’t that make them scientific? Some of them
claim to help you lose weight, some say they treat diseases, and some just …
make you less toxic? Align your chi with your wallpaper? Organize your closet
and tell your BFF that yes, her passive-aggressive Facebook status messages
about her ex have been lame since about two minutes past the age of 15?

But they don’t work. Why? The answers lie in science, and according to the way
our bodies work, detoxes could actually cause you harm. Here’s why you should
suppress the urge to try out that next miracle cleanse.

Green Juice Will Not Purify You

Who doesn’t want to think that a delightful mixture of kale, twigs, tree sap,
unicorn tears, and whatever Gwyneth Paltrow is raving about this week can make
you pretty? It’s glitter in a bottle. Right? Wrong. For one, most green juices
are just sugar water. Suja Juice’s Green Supreme has 42 grams of sugar, no iron
or B vitamins, and minimal protein. At $6.99 to $8.99 per bottle, you’re
getting …. juice. Similarly, BlueprintCleanse, Juice From The Raw, and JUS by
Julie are not magic keys to weight loss and well-being. All are cold-pressed,
organic, and sell at astronomically high prices with vague promises of making
you less gross.

Continue Reading @ Cosmopolitan – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

NASA Faked Mars Landings: Mars Rover Photos Were Taken In Simulated Mars
Environment On Devon Island, Canada, According to Conspiracy Theorists

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 8, 2016
Posted in: Conspiracy, Government, Hoax, NASA. Tagged: canada, conspiracies,
conspiracists, Conspiracy, conspiracy theories, conspiracy theorist, conspiracy
theorists, conspiracy theory, Curiosity, Devon Island, Faked, Inquisitr, Mars,
Mars Landings, Mars rover, nasa, Opportunity. Leave a comment

curiosity1
Via: Inquisitr

A conspiracy theory fast gaining traction online makes the astounding claim
that NASA’s Curiosity and Opportunity rovers never traveled to Mars and that
the images of the Martian environment being uploaded to NASA websites were
actually taken on a remote island called Devon Island in Canada, the largest
uninhabited island on Earth.

mars yankee go homeAccording to the rumors making the rounds in the conspiracy
theory blogosphere, the pictures being uploaded regularly to NASA’s websites
and palmed off as images of the Martian environment are fake images taken on
Devon Island in Canada where NASA has set up a landscape identical with the
“Martian landscape” we see on photos NASA scientists upload to NASA websites.

Conspiracy theorists claim that the rovers never traveled out to space, let
alone land on Mars. Rovers Opportunity and Curiosity are being kept in storage
in one of NASA’s facilities. Meanwhile, the agency has deployed two smaller
versions of the rovers — “baby rovers” — on Devon Island in Canada.

NASA maintains permanent bases on Devon Island where NASA personnel dressed in
mock astronaut suits play around with “baby rovers” fitted with cameras.
Conspiracy theorists note that the terrain of the island bears a striking
resemblance to the images of the “Martian environment” that NASA uploads to its
websites. This makes the island an ideal location on Earth for NASA to stage
make-believe Martian environment photo shoots.

There is also evidence, according to conspiracy theorists, that NASA has bases
in other remote areas used for simulating Martian environment.

Continue Reading @ Inquisitr – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Lumosity to Pay $2 Million to Settle FTC Deceptive Advertising Charges for Its
“Brain Training” Program

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 5, 2016
Posted in: Brain Works, Fraud, Health, Medical, Pseudoscientific, Quackery.
Tagged: advertising, Alzheimer's disease, brain training, Bureau of Consumer
Protection, cognitive impairment, Consumer Protection, dementia, Federal Trade
Commission, FTC, Health Claims, Lumos Labs, Lumosity, marketing, memory loss,
pseudoscience, science, unfounded claims. Leave a comment

ftc_logo_430Via Federal Trade Commission (FTC)

The creators and marketers of the Lumosity “brain training” program have agreed
to settle Federal Trade Commission charges alleging that they deceived
consumers with unfounded claims that Lumosity games can help users perform
better at work and in school, and reduce or delay cognitive impairment
associated with age and other serious health conditions.

lumosity-logoAs part of the settlement, Lumos Labs, the company behind
Lumosity, will pay $2 million in redress and will notify subscribers of the FTC
action and provide them with an easy way to cancel their auto-renewal to avoid
future billing.

“Lumosity preyed on consumers’ fears about age-related cognitive decline,
suggesting their games could stave off memory loss, dementia, and even
Alzheimer’s disease,” said Jessica Rich, Director of the FTC’s Bureau of
Consumer Protection. “But Lumosity simply did not have the science to back up
its ads.”

According to the FTC’s complaint, the Lumosity program consists of 40 games
purportedly designed to target and train specific areas of the brain. The
company advertised that training on these games for 10 to 15 minutes three or
four times a week could help users achieve their “full potential in every
aspect of life.” The company sold both online and mobile app subscriptions,
with options ranging from monthly ($14.95) to lifetime ($299.95) memberships.

Continue Reading @ Federal Trade Commission (FTC) – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Contaminants Found in 92% of TCM Herbal Products

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 4, 2016
Posted in: Alternative Medicine, Health, Medical, Pseudoscientific, Science.
Tagged: American Medical Association, ayurvedic, contaminants, herbal, Herbs,
medicine, NeuroLogica Blog, science, Steven Novella, supplements, TCM, The
Journal of the American Medical Association, traditional chinese medicine. 
Leave a comment

steven_novellaby Steven Novella via NeuroLogica Blog

A new study out of Australia looked at 26 different Traditional Chinese
Medicine (TCM) products purchased from stores. Chinese herbs_300pxThey
performed three types of analysis: heavy metal screening, toxicological
analysis, and DNA sequencing. They found that 92% of the products tested had at
least one type of contaminant.

This adds to a growing list of studies and revelations about how poorly the
supplement industry is regulated, and raises further concerns about the overall
quality of herbal and supplement products.

A 2008 study found that about 20% of ayurvedic herbal products contained heavy
metal contamination, often at levels high enough to be toxic. 

A 2013 study published in the BMC found that:

    “Although we were able to authenticate almost half (48%) of the products,
    one-third of these also contained contaminants and or fillers not listed on
    the label. Product substitution occurred in 30/44 of the products tested
    and only 2/12 companies had products without any substitution,
    contamination or fillers.”

A 2014 study published in JAMA found that half of the product recalled by the
FDA for being adulterated with banned drugs were dietary supplements, including
up to one third of products purchased online. Further, when the FDA followed up
they found that 6 months after they had issued a recall for adulterated
supplements, two-thirds were still on the market and still contained the banned
drugs.

Continue Reading @ NeuroLogica Blog – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Mike Adams Stunning Confession: “You Guys Didn’t Know Natural News Was Satire?”

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 2, 2016
Posted in: Comedy, Fun Stuff, Health, Hoax, Humor, Pseudoscientific, Satire.
Tagged: confession, Mike Adams, satire, scibabe. 1 Comment

[mikeadamsi]

After years of riling up the most vulnerable, desperate, and at times tin foil
hat wearing and paranoid contingents in the world, Mike Adams finally comes
clean.

“I’ve been making this shit up as I go. How the fuck didn’t anybody catch it?”

Adams’ wild claims about everything from vaccines being a holocaust, vaccines
being a government scam, chemicals making your kids gay, or claiming that honey
and water makes a great mouthwash? He’s finally admitted that he was just
yanking yer’ goat.

“I started the website out as a joke, you know? Nobody could have believed all
of that. I mean just look at the atrocious grammar, the videos comparing a
chicken nugget to an alien landscape, my insane self-written profile, the
goddamn articles themselves. It reads like satire. I mean, nobody could
possibly have the cognitive dissonance to run a business like this, not
publicly cite any sources, and think they have a shred of credibility, right?
I’ve been pulling this whole thing off brilliantly for years.”

Adams smiles when he thinks back over his long and storied career as an
organic, alternative health crusader.

Continue Reading @ SciBabe – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Ten Facebook Pages You Need to Stop Sharing From

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on January 2, 2016
Posted in: Alex Jones, Alternative Medicine, Food Babe, Fraud, GMO, Health,
Medical, Pseudoscientific, Quackery, Science. Tagged: Alex Jones, Alternative
medicine, Collective Evolution, conspiracies, conspiracists, Conspiracy,
conspiracy theories, conspiracy theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy
theory, Dawn Pedersen, dawnsbrain, debunk, Debunked, Dr. Joseph Mercola, Eat
Clean, Facebook, Food Babe, Mercola, MindBodyGreen, Natural News, NaturalNews,
New World Order, Paranoid Conspiracy Theorists, Prevention Magazine,
pseudoscience, science, Spirit Science, The Mind Unleashed, Vani Hari. Leave a
comment

By Dawn Pedersen via dawnsbrain.com

A friend of mine shared an eyebrow-raising article on Facebook. The linked
story was along the lines of “private planes stolen by terrorists in the Middle
East, and an attack is imminent”. youtube graduate_250pxThe sensible people
among his friends good-naturedly mocked him. They ribbed him about how
ridiculous the prediction was. And all you had to do was consider the source.

My friend had shared the story from a notoriously crackpot Facebook page. The
post lacked any merit, save a few tenuous and unrelated pieces of actual news.
This behavior was typical of this particular page. Often, these types of pages
hook you with a kernel of truth, and then wrap it in layers of idiocy.

When confronted, this friend said, “well, we’ll see who’s right in time.” The
prediction by Natural News has failed to become reality almost a year later.

The Facebook fan pages below have a habit of spitting scientific inquiry and
reason in the eye. They also have an unreasonably high number of fans who
share their inanity. Shares from the following pages deserve a serious eye roll
and shaking of one’s head.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

alex-jones-cover_500px

#10 Alex Jones

Facebook fans: 856K

What He Says About Himself

“Documentary Filmmaker, Nationally Syndicated Radio Talkshow & Prisonplanet.tv
Host – Free video/audio stream”

What He Really Does

Mr. Jones uses a ton of hyperbole, conspiracy theories, and a loose connection
to reality, to whip up fear and loathing in his audience.

Recent Ridiculousness

alex-jones-post
 Whatever your feelings are on using legislation to increase vaccination rates,
you won’t find any legitimate support for implications that vaccines contain
toxic doses of chemical. Nor that there are aborted fetal cells in any of the
shots we get.

Sample Fan Comment

alex-jones-fan
 World government, population control, fluoride hysteria, GMOs, illegal cancer
cures, and chemtrails. This comment has it all.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

food-babe-cover_500px

#9 Food Babe

Facebook fans: 938K

What She Says About Herself

“Vani Hari started FoodBabe.com in April 2011 to spread information about what
is really in the American food supply. She teaches people how to make the right
purchasing decisions at the grocery store, how to live an organic lifestyle,
and how to travel healthfully around the world. The success in her writing and
investigative work can be seen in the way food companies react to her uncanny
ability to find and expose the truth.”

What She Really Does

Ms. Hari, the “Food Babe”, parrots Dr. Mercola and cobbles together
cherry-picked blurbs from questionable studies and Wikipedia. She uses the term
“investigation” to excuse the fact that she often gives medical advice without
having any education in the life sciences. She picks the weirdest ingredients
to go after.

Recent Ridiculousness

food-babe-post
 This from the woman who claimed to have cured all her allergies with
acupuncture and “clean eating”.

Sample Fan Comment

food-babe-fan
 On Facebook, it’s only a matter of time before someone pulls out the EO sales
kit.

Continue Reading at DawnsBrain.com – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

10 Unexplained Paranormal Events

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 28, 2015
Posted in: Afterlife, Bizarre, Creatures, Demons, Exorcism, Ghosts, Haunted,
Mysteries, Myths, Paranormal, Poltergeist, possession, Spirits, Story Telling,
supernatural, Urban Legends. Tagged: Aliens, Allagash Abductions, Alltime10s,
Black Eyed Children, Dead Mountain, demonic, Devil, Doris Bither, Dyatlov Pass
incident, Elisa Lam, Exorcism, extraterrestrial, Fatima, Ghosts, haunted,
hauntings, Lead Mask Case, Mansion, miracle, orbs, paranormal, phantom,
Possessed, possession, Roland Doe, Russia, satan, spectral, spirits, spiritual,
sun miracle, supernatural, The Devil’s Footprints, The Exorcist, UFO, Urban
Legends, Virgin Mary, Yeti, youtube. Leave a comment

By Alltime10s via YouTube

    From the mysterious death of Elisa Lam, who’s body was found in a hotel
    water cooler, to the real life events that inspired The Exorcist, check out
    our terrifying list of the top 10 unexplained paranormal events.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Surviving Whole Foods

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 27, 2015
Posted in: Comedy, Fun Stuff, GMO, Health, Humor, Organic. Tagged: Candida,
candida hypersensitivity, candida sickness, genetically modified, Genetically
modified food, Genetically modified organism, Gluten, gluten intolerance,
Gluten-free, GMO, groceries, Huffington Post, huffingtonpost, John Oliver,
Kelly MacLean, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, Organic, Organic farming,
Organic food, Organic woo, Whole Foods, Whole Foods Market. Leave a comment

Kelly MacLeanBy Kelly MacLean via huffingtonpost

Whole Foods is like Vegas. You go there to feel good but you leave broke,
disoriented, and with the newfound knowledge that you have a vaginal disease.

Unlike Vegas, Whole Foods’ clientele are all about mindfulness and compassion…
until they get to the parking lot. Then it’s war. As I pull up this morning, I
see a pregnant lady on the crosswalk holding a baby and groceries. This driver
swerves around her and honks. As he speeds off I catch his bumper sticker,
which says ‘NAMASTE’. Poor lady didn’t even hear him approaching because he was
driving a Prius. He crept up on her like a panther.

homeless whole foodsAs the great, sliding glass doors part I am immediately
smacked in the face by a wall of cool, moist air that smells of strawberries
and orchids. I leave behind the concrete jungle and enter a cornucopia of
organic bliss; the land of hemp milk and honey. Seriously, think about Heaven
and then think about Whole Foods; they’re basically the same.

The first thing I see is the great wall of kombucha — 42 different kinds of
rotten tea. Fun fact: the word kombucha is Japanese for ‘I gizzed in your tea.’
Anyone who’s ever swallowed the glob of mucus at the end of the bottle knows
exactly what I’m talking about. I believe this thing is called “The Mother,”
which makes it that much creepier.

Next I see the gluten-free section filled with crackers and bread made from
various wheat-substitutes such as cardboard and sawdust. I skip this aisle
because I’m not rich enough to have dietary restrictions. Ever notice that you
don’t meet poor people with special diet needs? A gluten intolerant house
cleaner? A cab driver with Candida? Candida is what I call a rich, white person
problem. You know you’ve really made it in this world when you get Candida. My
personal theory is that Candida is something you get from too much hot yoga.
All I’m saying is if I were a yeast, I would want to live in your yoga pants.

Next I approach the beauty aisle. There is a scary looking machine there that
you put your face inside of and it tells you exactly how ugly you are.

Continue Reading at huffingtonpost – – –

        ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Ghosts and Infrasound

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 26, 2015
Posted in: Afterlife, Brain Works, Debunk, Ghosts, Haunted, Human Perception,
Paranormal, Perception, Poltergeist, Psychics, Spirits, supernatural,
Superstition. Tagged: ghost, ghost hunters, Ghosts, haunted, haunting,
hauntings, Infrasound, life after death, Pew Research Center, Poltergeist,
shadowy figures, specters, spooky, Stuff They Don't Want You to Know. Leave a
comment

By Stuff They Don’t Want You to Know via YouTube

    While humanity has yet to generate any universally-accepted proof of ghosts
    or hauntings, millions of people around the world report seeing apparitions
    or experiencing ghostly encounters every year (and sometimes these events
    cluster around specific areas). Why? Is there any possible explanation for
    the purported appearance of ghosts?

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Merry Christmas!

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 25, 2015
Posted in: Comedy, Fun Stuff, Humor. 1 Comment

UFO Santa

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Food Babe Is Selling GMOs

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 22, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Leave a comment

[70]Bad Science Debunked

Her virulent protests and bluster to the contrary, it can now be revealed that
Vani Hari (the “Food Babe”) is selling a product with an ingredient that’s
derived from genetically modified corn.

Follow me, dear reader, into the Vani Hari online store, and have a look at the
natural hand sanitizer that earns her a nice sales commission on Amazon:^1

food babe cleanwell gmo corn sugar Clean Well is indeed non-toxic.  It just
happens to be made from sugar derived from GMO corn, which Food Babe falsely
links to myriad health problems. (click/enlarge)

The ingredient in question?  One that Vani loves to rant about:  GMO corn:^2

food babe gmo corn sugar According to the USDA, the amount of GMO corn planted
in the United States in 2015 has reached approximately 85%.^3  It’s hard to
avoid it, and Vani’s product doesn’t.

Notice, if you will, the “emulsifier derived from corn sugar”.  If you’ve
followed the GMO debate for…

View original post 591 more words

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Russian Sleep Experiment

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 21, 2015
Posted in: Legends, Myths, Urban Legends. Tagged: Brian Dunning, Experiment,
General Science, health, Russian Sleep, Russian Sleep Experiment, skeptoid,
Soviet Union, Urban Legends. Leave a comment

Russian test subjects are said to have done unspeakably horrible things when
sleep deprived.

Brian DunningBy Brian Dunning via skeptoid

It has become a permanent fixture in the fabric of Internet lore: the Russian
Sleep Experiment, an account of a horrific experiment said to have been
conducted in the Soviet Union in the late 1940s. The subjects were five
political prisoners, placed into a sealed chamber and exposed to a gas which
prevented them from sleeping. After fifteen days the researchers entered the
chamber, and found the men — sleep deprived beyond any human experience — had
committed horrors that could scarcely be conceived. Today we’re going to look
into the story, and into the facts of sleep deprivation. Might something as
grotesque as the Russian Sleep Experiment truly be within the scope of human
possibility?

scary stairs_300pxAccording to the story, the researchers cleared the gas from
the chamber and entered, finding one of the five men dead:

    The food rations past day 5 had not been so much as touched. There were
    chunks of meat from the dead test subject’s thighs and chest stuffed into
    the drain in the center of the chamber… All four ‘surviving’ test subjects
    also had large portions of muscle and skin torn away from their bodies. The
    destruction of flesh and exposed bone on their finger tips indicated that
    the wounds were inflicted by hand…

    The abdominal organs below the ribcage of all four test subjects had been
    removed. While the heart, lungs and diaphragm remained in place, the skin
    and most of the muscles attached to the ribs had been ripped off, exposing
    the lungs through the ribcage. All the blood vessels and organs remained
    intact, they had just been taken out and laid on the floor, fanning out
    around the eviscerated but still living bodies of the subjects. The
    digestive tract of all four could be seen to be working, digesting food. It
    quickly became apparent that what they were digesting was their own flesh
    that they had ripped off and eaten over the course of days.

Those questioning whether or not this was a true story didn’t have to do very
much work. It’s a widely published fact that the Russian Sleep Experiment was a
piece of fiction, posted anonymously in 2010 to Creepy Pasta, a web site that
showcases scary fictional tales. Despite this, there are always conspiracy
minded people insistent that the story is true, or was leaked from some secret
government lab; but no matter how strong their desire that this be the case,
nobody has ever turned up anything like that. Sometimes a creepy story is just
a creepy story.

Continue Reading – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Satellites show no ‘global warming’ for 18 1/2 years –

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 21, 2015
Posted in: Climate Change, Climate Disruption, Global Warming. Tagged:
anthropogenic global warming, anthropogenic global warming theory, Climate
change, Climate Depot, climate disruption, Global Warming, global warming
alarmist, global warming theorists, global warming theory, man-made climate
change. 2 Comments

No North Pole warming for nearly 14 years! No South Pole warming for 37 years!

U.S. has had no warming for 18 years

South Pole sees no warming for 37 years. ‘For the whole of the satellite
record, the South Polar region has had a negative trend.  So much for a
fingerprint of warming due to the enhanced greenhouse effect being greater
warming at the Poles!’

[nov-s-pol2]

                    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Globe:

nov globe

There has been zero trend for exactly half the record, (and for an increase in
CO2 concentration of 37 ppm).

                    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Southern Hemisphere:

nov SH

The Pause has lengthened again.  For more than half the record the Southern
Hemisphere has zero trend.

                    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Tropical Oceans:

nov tropic oceans

Continue Reading – – –  Satellites show no ‘global warming’ for 18 1/2 years –
No N. Pole warming for nearly 14 years – No S. Pole warming for 37 years! |
Climate Depot

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Chemtrail’s Explained – YouTube

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 19, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Tagged: Chem, Chemtrail, Chemtrail Conspiracy,
chemtrail theory, ChemTrails. Leave a comment

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

What are “Crisis Actors?” | Stuff They Don’t Want You to Know – YouTube

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 17, 2015
Posted in: Conspiracy, Cover-up, Educational, False Flag, Hoax. Tagged:
conspiracies, conspiracist, conspiracists, Conspiracy, conspiracy theories,
conspiracy theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy theory, crisis actors,
False flag, false flag attack, false flags, Sandy Hook, Sandy Hook truthers,
Stuff They Don't Want You to Know, youtube. 1 Comment

More information (including sources) in the video description.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

For the undying 9/11 MORONIC JET FUEL ARGUMENT – YouTube

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 16, 2015
Posted in: 9/11, Conspiracy, Educational, Physics, Science. Tagged: 9 11
conspiracy theories, 9/11, 9/11 conspiracy theories, 9/11 conspiracy theorists,
9/11 conspiracy theory, Conspiracy, conspiracy theories, conspiracy theorist,
conspiracy theorists, conspiracy theory, jet fuel, Melt steel, September 11,
September 11 attacks, steel. Leave a comment

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Supertasks

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 15, 2015
Posted in: Educational, Fun Stuff, Geeky Stuff, Science. Tagged: infinite
distinct actions, paradox of the dichotomy, planck length, planck time,
Ross–Littlewood paradox, super solid, supertasks, Thomson’s Lamp, Vsauce,
youtube, zeno, Zeno's Paradoxes, zeno’s dichotomy, zenoianly. Leave a comment

Vsauce twists your brain in a knot … again :) Enjoy :)

Via Wikipedia:

    In philosophy, a supertask is a countably infinite sequence of operations
    that occur sequentially within a finite interval of time.^[1] Supertasks
    are called “hypertasks” when the number of operations becomes uncountably
    infinite. Supertasks are called “equisupertasks” when each individual task
    must be completed in the same amount of time. The term supertask was coined
    by the philosopher James F. Thomson, who devised Thomson’s lamp. The term
    hypertask derives from Clark and Read in their paper of that name.^[2] The
    term equisupertask derives from a paper by Jeremy Gwiazda.^[3]

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Denver Airport Conspiracy

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 12, 2015
Posted in: Conspiracy, Illuminati, Mysteries, New World Order. Tagged: airport,
Brian Dunning, conspiracists, Conspiracy, conspiracy theories, conspiracy
theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy theory, Denver Airport, Denver
Airport Conspiracy, Denver International, headquarters, Illuminati, nazi, Nazi
swastika, New World Order, NWO, runways, Stapleton International, Swastika. 1
Comment

Is the Denver International Airport really a headquarters for the New World
Order?

Brian DunningBy Brian Dunning via skeptoid

On the surface, Denver International Airport seems like any other modern
airport. It’s new, it’s clean, it’s big, and it’s modern. But some
investigators have found more to it than meets the eye. Much more. Claims
abound that Denver International was designed and built by the Illuminati as
the headquarters for the global genocide that will trigger the New World Order.

denver-8_300pxAn Internet search for “Denver airport conspiracy” reveals that
there is a lot of talk about this, and that the specific claims and
observations are numerous. Here’s an overview of the basics. According to the
conspiracy theorists, Denver already had a fine airport, Stapleton
International. But despite widespread protests, Denver International was built
and opened in 1995, with fewer runways, thus reducing Denver’s capacity. Its
construction began with five mysterious buildings that were completed and then
buried intact, with the cover story that they were “built wrong”. Up to 8
levels of underground facilities are said to exist, and workers who go there
refuse to answer questions about what they do. The entire airport is surrounded
by a barbed wire guard fence, with the barbed wire angled inward, to keep
people in, like a giant prison, not out like at other airports. And if viewed
from the air, the runways are revealed to be laid out in the shape of a Nazi
swastika. Questions about what the government might be doing in this
underground base may have been answered in 2007, when fourteen commercial
aircraft reported spontaneously shattered windshields as the presumed result of
electromagnetic pulses.

Indoors, the airport gets even stranger.

Continue Reading @ Skeptoid

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

10 CRAZY Internet Conspiracy Theories

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 10, 2015
Posted in: Aliens, Bizarre, ChemClouds, ChemTrails, Conspiracy, Cover-up,
Government, Holocaust, Illuminati, Moon Landing, NASA, New World Order,
Pyramids, Secret Societies, Time Travel, Vampires. Tagged: Adolf Hitler,
airplanes, alien spies, avril lavigne, Cats, ChemClouds, ChemTrails, dead,
Denver Airport, Denver International Airport, dinosaurs, Doppelgänger, egyptian
god, hadron collider, Hologram, Illuminati, immortality, Iran, Jay Z, killed,
Michael Jackson, Moon, moon doesn’t exist, Moon Landing, osiris, pyramids,
spraying, time traveler, Vampire, william henry, World War Two, wormhole, WWII,
youtube. Leave a comment

Via YouTube –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Amazing Anamorphic Illusions II – YouTube

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 9, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Leave a comment

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

DEBUNKED: Floating China City

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 5, 2015
Posted in: Debunk, Educational, Fun Stuff, Geeky Stuff, Hoax, Human Perception,
Illusions, Mysteries, Myths, Optical Illusion, Paranormal, Perception. Tagged:
China, CLASSIC YouTube, debunk, digital effects, fake, Fata Morgana, Floating
City, hoax, illusion, mirage, paranormal, visual effects. Leave a comment

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

How to Squash a Paranormal Claim – YouTube

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 4, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Leave a comment

Much more information in the video description.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

History Channel Releases Official “Ancient Aliens” Guide for Children

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on December 2, 2015
Posted in: Aliens, Ancient Aliens, Conspiracy, Cover-up, Creatures, Crop
Circles, History, Pseudohistory, Pseudoscientific, UFO. Tagged: Aliens, Ancient
Aliens, Ancient Aliens Debunked, Ancient Aliens Mysteries, extraterrestrials,
history, History Channel, Jason Colavito, jasoncolavito.com, Macmillan, Roaring
Brook Press, The Young Investigator’s Guide to Ancient Aliens. Leave a comment

Teaches Kids Aliens Are Behind Everything

Jason ColavitoBy Jason Colavito via jasoncolavito.com

I don’t always get outraged by the terrible choices that cable TV makes. Cable
channels have always done terrible things in the name of profit, but yesterday
I learned of a horrible new product that flew under the radar when it was
released a few months ago.Ancient Aliens book 225px Just seeing it made my
blood boil, and I hope you’ll agree that it symbolizes pretty much everything
wrong with American education and popular history in the twenty-first century.

That product? The Young Investigator’s Guide to Ancient Aliens: Based on the
Hit Television Series, a book tie-in to the Ancient Aliens TV series, which
carries the History Channel’s official endorsement and authorship and was
released by Roaring Brook Press, a division of Macmillan, one of America’s
largest book publishers. The volume is aimed at readers aged 8 to 12, though
after skimming the book I’d think it’s perhaps a bit too ambitious for an 8
year old. (I wonder if grades 8-12 was what was meant instead.)

Although the book was released in July, it received no reviews on Amazon as of
this writing and no mainstream media coverage that I could find. That is
perhaps a good thing because the book itself is more horrifying than you’d
imagine. As the book description explains:

    Spanning history, from the earliest of human civilizations to the modern
    period, this book exposes evidence of the presence of extraterrestrials in
    some of our most triumphant and devastating moments.

And lest you think the existence of this book is an idle danger: According to
the Toronto Public Library’s website, they purchased an astonishing 31 copies
of the book to ensure that 23 branches of the library had one or more copies on
hand. WorldCat reports that 97 libraries currently stock the book in their
children’s sections. Indeed, the Youth Services Book Review blog, run by
librarians in Massachusetts, gave the book a five star review and recommended
it for all libraries serving children and teenagers. I would like to posit this
question: If the History Channel promoted a book of “Creationism for Kids” or
“Why Vaccines Will Kill You,” would anyone consider it a trusted resource or
stock it alongside serious nonfiction for educating kids?

Continue Reading at JasonColavito.com – – –

Click the image to visit Ancient Aliens Debunked

Click the image to visit Ancient Aliens Debunked

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Debunked: Mystery Levitating Cars in China

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 30, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Tagged: cars, China, Debunked, levitating, mystery,
mystery force, solved.

Have you seen this video of the “mystery force” that levitates vehicles in
China? Well, as you might expect, there’s no mystery at all.

First, the “mystery force” video:

Here is the real story:

From the YouTube video description:

    We take a look at the bizarre accident in China that caused three cars to
    apparently levitate….

    Links to explanation:
    http://boingboing.net/2015/11/27/cabl…

    https://www.reddit.com/r/gifs/comment…

    Full Video:
    http://v.ifeng.com/vblog/dv/201511/04…

    Check out my Facebook discussion page:
    “Voices Of Reason To Explain X – VORTEX”
    https://www.facebook.com/groups/30806…

    Dazzathecameraman on Facebook:
    https://www.facebook.com/groups/dazza…

    Continue Reading The YouTube video description – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

More Mind-Blowing Fraud From The Obama Administration

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 30, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Leave a comment

[d3]Real Science

    11/16/2015

    Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We are
    already seeing its effects with rising seas, catastrophic wildfires and
    water shortages.

    If we don’t act on climate now, this list is just the tip of the iceberg of
    what we can expect in years to come…

    9 animals that are feeling the impacts of climate change | U.S. Department
    of the Interior

Sea level has been rising for the past 20,000 years., most of that time much
faster than now. Saying that we are “already seeing sea level rise”
is meaningless propaganda. The Neanderthals were also “already seeing sea level
rise.”

    Post-Glacial_Sea_Level

Forest fire burn acreage is down 80% since the 1930’s. Blaming fires on climate
change is utterly absurd.

    2015-11-19-21-26-21

    Indicator 3.16: Area and percent of forest affected by abiotic agents

Droughts have become less common and less intense over the past century.
Blaming droughts on climate…

View original post 39 more words

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Will This Hypnotize You?

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 29, 2015
Posted in: Brain Works, Educational, Fun Stuff, Geeky Stuff, Human Perception,
Hypnosis, Medical, Perception, Science. Tagged: hypnotists, hypnotized,
hypnotizing, youtube. Leave a comment

I love anything having to do with brain functions. Enjoy :)

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Earth is flat and ‘they’ don’t want you to know

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 29, 2015
Posted in: Astrology, Conspiracy, Flat Earth, Government, History, Holocaust,
NASA, New World Order, Pseudohistory, Pseudoscientific, Quackery. Tagged:
Bankers, Catholics, Earth, Eric Dubay, flat, Flat Earth, Flat Earth Society,
flat Earth theory, Flat Earth Truthers, Freemasons, Jew World Order, Jews,
Joseph L. Flatley, Moon, Nazis, New World Order, NWO, truthers. Leave a comment

flat_earth_youtubers_600pxBy Joseph L. Flatley via The Kernel

In the year 1543, the Pope teamed up with Copernicus, the Church of England,
and possibly Aristotle (who, inconveniently, had died in 322 B.C.) to convince
unsuspecting Europeans that, despite the Earth’s obvious flatness, it’s
actually a sphere, and that the sun is the center of the universe. In the years
since, the usual bad guys—Catholics, Jews, and bankers—have jealously guarded
the secret of the flat Earth. And with the birth of the space age, NASA
(basically a joint project between the Freemasons and the Nazis) got involved.
That, at least, is the story according to the Flat Earth Truthers, a small but
vocal group who believe that the world is flat, and that this knowledge is the
key to understanding who really runs the world.

I'll take my flat earth with extra cheese and pepperoni.

I’ll take my flat earth with extra cheese and pepperoni.

Eric Dubay is arguably the most visible Flat Earth Truther. On his Blogger bio,
Dubay describes himself as just another 30-something American cool dude,
“living in Thailand where I teach Yoga and Wing Chun part-time while exposing
the New World Order full-time.” That work involves publishing exposés like “
Dinosaur Hoax – Dinosaurs Never Existed!” and “Adolf Hitler vs. The Jew World
Order.” That’s right—the Jew World Order.

Dubay’s latest e-book is titled 200 Proofs Earth is Not a Spinning Ball. In it,
he lays out the basics of modern flat Earth theory. The moon, he writes, is a
self-luminescent, semitransparent object, not solid at all. The International
Space Station, which you can actually see through a telescope, is really a
drone or a hologram (like the planes that hit the World Trade Center). And the
Earth itself is a disc, like the emblem on the flag of the United Nations, or
an old Beatles record. The North Pole is in the center of the disc, where you
secure it to the turntable, and traveling south takes you to the beginning of
Track 1 (“Taxman”). Antarctica, instead of being a continent, is a wall of ice
that rings ’round the edge of the disc, holding the oceans in place.

According to Dubay, this is all common sense.

Continue Reading at The Kernel – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Controversial Texas doctor Stanislaw Burzynski goes before disciplinary board

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 27, 2015
Posted in: Alternative Medicine, Fraud, Health, Medical, Pseudoscientific,
Quackery. Tagged: Alternative medicine, Burzynski, Cancer, doctor, Liz Szabo,
snake oil salesman, Stanislaw Burzynski, Texas, Texas Medical Board, USA TODAY.
Leave a comment

By Liz Szabo via USA Today

Stanislaw Burzynski, has treated patients with experimental, unapproved cancer
drugs, at this clinic, in Houston. (Photo: Michael Stravato, for USA TODAY)

Stanislaw Burzynski, has treated patients with experimental, unapproved cancer
drugs, at this clinic, in Houston.
(Photo: Michael Stravato, for USA TODAY)

Houston doctor Stanislaw Burzynski – a rock star in the alternative medicine
world – has spent decades fighting state and federal regulators, who often have
taken a dim view of his claims to be able to cure the terminally ill
patients no one else can help, using unapproved medicines available only from
him.

The Texas Medical Board has repeatedly tried and failed to shut Burzynski down,
arguing that the pugnacious Polish immigrant puts patients in danger by
marketing unapproved and potentially risky cancer drugs of his own invention.

Burzynski’s latest battle begins Thursday, at a disciplinary hearing in the
state capital.

The medical board, like most of the medical establishment, paints Burzynski as
a snake-oil salesman who hawks unproven therapies to desperate souls.

Yet that disdain hasn’t deterred patients from around the world from seeking
care at his Houston clinic.

Now, Texas medical officials are trying a different tactic.

Continue Reading at USA Today – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

CRISIS ACTORS – Bullshit Busted #1

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 23, 2015
Posted in: Conspiracy, Debunk, Educational, False Flag, Government, New World
Order, Perception. Tagged: aurora, Boston, Conspiracy, crisis actor, False flag
, government, New World Order, NWO, Oregon, Sandy Hook, shootings, youtube. 
Leave a comment

Slightly hokey, but excellent information! Enjoy :)

MIB

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Why conspiracy theories are so popular and how our suspicious minds look for
big causes for big outcomes

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 20, 2015
Posted in: 9/11, Brain Works, Conspiracy, Cover-up, False Flag, Government,
Moon Landing, NASA, New World Order, Secret Societies. Tagged: 9/11, Bataclan
theatre, conspiracies, conspiracists, Conspiracy, conspiracy theories,
conspiracy theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy theory, False flag,
Features, Illuminati, Lifestyle, New World Order, NWO, Paranoid Conspiracy
Theorists, Paris, Rob Brotherton, Sandy Hook, Satanists, September 11,
September 11 2001, September 11 attacks, terror attacks, terrorism, terrorist,
The Independent, truther, truthers, youtube. Leave a comment

The speed with which conspiracy theories spread can make them seem typically
modern. But, Rob Brotherton, the author of a new study on the mind of the
‘truther’, says they are as old as thinking itself and tap into our darkest
prejudices.

By Simon Usborne via The Independent

In the shadows: Conspiracy theorists said this photo of Apollo 11 astronaut
Edwin ‘Buzz’ Aldrin standing by the US flag planted on the surface of the Moon
on 20 July 1969 was mocked up EPA

In the shadows: Conspiracy theorists said this photo of Apollo 11 astronaut
Edwin ‘Buzz’ Aldrin standing by the US flag planted on the surface of the Moon
on 20 July 1969 was mocked up EPA

Before the victims had been identified, before any group had claimed
responsibility – before the blood had been cleaned from the streets – the
“truth” about the terror attacks in Paris was already taking shape online. Just
hours after the last shots, one YouTube user explained what had happened in a
video that has since been viewed more than 110,000 times.

“It was a false flag event aimed at destabilising Europe into New World Order
oblivion,” the anonymous man says in narration laid over shaky mobile phone
footage of his laptop. The computer displays images of immigration and the
Wikipedia entry for subversion. “Friday 13th is not a coincidence! – it’s an
occult date of evil Illuminati satanists,” he adds.

As photographs and footage of the attacks emerged, armies of “truthers” went
further, describing in dozens of similar videos and on their slick websites
how, among other things, the crime scenes had been staged by the intelligence
agencies. The fleeing woman filmed dangling from a window at the Bataclan
theatre was an actor wearing a harness.

Terror attacks are always fertile ground for conspiracy theories, none more
than 9/11, but committed conspiracy theorists find “truth” anywhere. One
truther, as conspiracy theorists prefer to be known (many believe that the use
of the term “conspiracy theory” is part of a conspiracy theory) was arrested in
Connecticut this month after confronting the sister of a teacher who died in
the 2012 Sandy Hook school shooting.

Continue Reading at The Independent – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

What I Learned about Climate Change:

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 18, 2015
Posted in: Climate Change, Climate Disruption, Global Warming, Science. Tagged:
Al gore, Carbon dioxide, Climate change, climate change denial, climate
disruption, Climate Models, Climate science, ClimateCurious, CO2, David Siegel,
global temperatures, Global Warming, global warming alarmist, global warming
skeptic, global warming theory, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
science, settled science, Sun, weather. 1 Comment

The Science is not Settled

David SiegelBy David Siegel via www.ClimateCurious.com

What is your position on the climate-change debate? What would it take to
change your mind?

If the answer is It would take a ton of evidence to change my mind, because my
understanding is that the science is settled, and we need to get going on this
important issue, that’s what I thought, too. This is my story.

global warming consensus_250pxMore than thirty years ago, I became vegan
because I believed it was healthier (it’s not), and I’ve stayed vegan because I
believe it’s better for the environment (it is). I haven’t owned a car in ten
years. I love animals; I’ll gladly fly halfway around the world to take photos
of them in their natural habitats. I’m a Democrat: I think governments play a
key role in helping preserve our environment for the future in the most
cost-effective way possible. Over the years, I built a set of assumptions: that
Al Gore was right about global warming, that he was the David going up against
the industrial Goliath. In 1993, I even wrote a book about it.

Recently, a friend challenged those assumptions. At first, I was annoyed,
because I thought the science really was settled. As I started to look at the
data and read about climate science, I was surprised, then shocked. As I
learned more, I changed my mind. I now think there probably is no climate
crisis and that the focus on CO2 takes funding and attention from critical
environmental problems. I’ll start by making ten short statements that should
challenge your assumptions and then back them up with an essay.

1 • Weather is not climate. There are no studies showing a conclusive link
between global warming and increased frequency or intensity of storms,
droughts, floods, cold or heat waves.

2 • Natural variation in weather and climate is tremendous. Most of what people
call “global warming” is natural, not man-made. The earth is warming, but not
quickly, not much, and not lately.

3 • There is tremendous uncertainty as to how the climate really works. Climate
models are not yet skillful; predictions are unresolved.

4 • New research shows fluctuations in energy from the sun correlate very
strongly with changes in earth’s temperature, better than CO2 levels.

5 • CO2 has very little to do with it. All the decarbonization we can do isn’t
going to change the climate much.

6 • There is no such thing as “carbon pollution.” Carbon dioxide is coming out
of your nose right now; it is not a poisonous gas. CO2 concentrations in
previous eras have been many times higher than they are today.

7 • Sea level will probably continue to rise — not quickly, and not much.
Researchers have found no link between CO2 and sea level.

8 • The Arctic experiences natural variation as well, with some years warmer
earlier than others. Polar bear numbers are up, not down. They have more to do
with hunting permits than CO2*.

9 • No one has shown any damage to reef or marine systems. Additional man-made
CO2 will not likely harm oceans, reef systems, or marine life. Fish are mostly
threatened by people, who eat them.

10 • The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and others are pursuing a
political agenda and a PR campaign, not scientific inquiry. There’s a
tremendous amount of trickery going on under the surface*.

Could this possibly be right? Is it heresy, or critical thinking — or both? If
I’ve upset or confused you, let me guide you through my journey.

Continue Reading at ClimateCurious.com – – –

Also See: How a liberal vegan environmentalist made the switch from climate
proponent to climate skeptic (wattsupwiththat)

no global warming 18 years

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The logical paradox of ghost hunting

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 15, 2015
Posted in: Afterlife, Ghosts, Haunted, Paranormal, Pseudoscientific, Science,
Spirituality, supernatural. Tagged: ad hoc fallacy, Big Foot, electromagnetic
energy, electromagnetic field, electromagnetic field meter, EM, Ghost hunting,
Ghosts, metaphysical, Nessy, paranormal, pseudoscience, pseudoscientific,
pseudoscientific claims, science, supernatural, The Logic of Science, UFO. 
Leave a comment

Source: The Logic of Science

Many people believe in the paranormal, and a great deal of time and effort is
spent searching for evidence of it. Indeed, shows like “Ghost Hunters” are
extremely popular, and the notion of using scientific equipment to detect the
supernatural is well ingrained into our literature, movies, and culture more
generally. The reality is, however, the ghost hunting is a perfect case study
in pseudoscience, and it is based on a series of logical fallacies and amusing
paradoxes.
ghost ElmerGhost02_350pxMost obviously, ghost hunting (along with related
pseudoscientific ventures such as UFO spotting, searches for Big Foot and
Nessy, Creation Research, etc.) suffers a serious flaw which automatically
removes it from the realm of science. Namely, it starts with a conclusion
(i.e., ghosts exist), then tries to prove that conclusion. In contrast, real
science always starts with the evidence, then forms a conclusion based on that
evidence. This distinction is extremely important, because  if you start with a
conclusion, you will inevitably find a way to twist the evidence to fit your
preconceived view, even if it results in ad hoc fallacies. For example, suppose
that ghost hunters go into an abandoned building and detect electromagnetic
energy (EM). They will view that as evidence of a supernatural presence, but to
those of us who aren’t already convinced that ghosts exist, that energy could
be a bad wire, a faulty transformer outside, the cameras, lights,and other
equipment being used by the ghost hunters, etc. You see, the explanation that
the energy is coming from a ghost is only convincing if you are already
convinced that ghosts exist. This is why real science always has to start with
the evidence, then form a conclusion. If you set out to prove something, you
will always find a way to do it (at least in your mind).
ghost hunt emf_200pxGhost hunting also suffers a serious paradox which is
somewhat unique to it, and which I find highly entertaining. Ghosts are
supposed to be paranormal, supernatural, metaphysical, etc. yet ghost hunters
try to document their existence by looking for physical clues. This is
problematic because, by definition, science is the study of the physical
universe. It is inherently incapable of answering questions about the
supernatural. So anytime that you are looking for the metaphysical, you are
automatically doing pseudoscience, not science.
To put this another way, you cannot prove the existence of the metaphysical by
documenting the physical. Let’s say, for example, that a ghost hunter goes  . 
.  .

Continue Reading . . .

ghost-hunters

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

World of Batshit – #5: Space Denial

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 15, 2015
Posted in: Comedy, Conspiracy, Debunk, Flat Earth, Fun Stuff, Humor,
Pseudohistory, Pseudoscientific, Quackery. Tagged: CoolHardLogic, Flat Earth,
Moon, Space, youtube. Leave a comment

I love the “World of Batshit” series. This one is about people who deny the
existence of space (wtf?).

Enjoy :)

                    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

By CoolHardLogic via YouTube

    Part five in a series examining some of the most ridiculous claims. In this
    part, we look at a channel claiming (among other things) that space don’t
    exist.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Food Babe Selling Pesticide, Coal Tar Dyes To Children

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 13, 2015
Posted in: Uncategorized. Leave a comment

[70]Bad Science Debunked

Piggy Paint from food babe Piggy Paint, sold by Food Babe. (click/enlarge)

Friday is payday here at Bad Science Debunked.  As I’m wont to do when I’m
flush with cash, I thought a trip to FoodBabe.com for a little online shopping
might be fun.  As always, we’ll  be wearing our Food Babe Investigator Hats^
TM as we browse, which means that when evaluating the safety of product
ingredients, we use Vani Hari’s rules.  In addition, as a special treat, we
also need to don Food Babe Lab Coats (patent pending) and Vani Hari Safety
Goggles,^SM because we’ll be going into our kitchen laboratory to do an actual
chemistry experiment.

I can barely stand the excitement, and I already know what explodes!  Ready to
go?  Put on those safety goggles.  Today’s Food Babe product is:  “Piggy
Paint”.

Piggy paint?

Yes, Piggy Paint
I bought Food Babe’s Piggy Paint nail polish for children from Amazon.com after
reading her article…

View original post 2,049 more words

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Pouring Cold Water on Cryotherapy

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 11, 2015
Posted in: Alternative Medicine, Health, Medical, Pseudoscientific, Quackery,
Science. Tagged: Alternative Medical, alternative medical treatments,
Alternative medicine, alternative therapies, Brian Dunning, Consumer Ripoffs,
cryoablation, cryosauna, cryosauna therapy, Cryotherapy, health, liquid
nitrogen, Medical, skeptoid. Leave a comment

Questioning whether this new spa treatment provides all the medical benefits it
claims.

Brian DunningBy Brian Dunning via skeptoid
Read transcript below or listen here

One of our most abundant renewable resources is bogus medical therapies. About
every day, someone thinks up a new one: sometimes invented from whole cloth,
sometimes extrapolated from a real therapy, sometimes tweaked from an old
tradition. Today we’re going to look closely at one such
spin-the-wheel-and-create-an-alternate-therapy: cryotherapy.

frozen faceDon’t confuse this with medical cryotherapy, the freezing off of
tissue, usually called cryoablation. Alternative cryotherapy is a hijack of an
actual medical term repurposed to refer to the use of what they call a
cryosauna, the opposite of a regular sauna. Rather than applying ice to a
specific body part, a cryosauna is used for what they call Whole Body
Cryotherapy. It’s a small room for one or more people, cooled by liquid
nitrogen to extreme temperatures, usually about -125°C/-200°F but sometimes
advertised as low as -170°C/-275°F. You have to wear special slippers to
protect your feet since you can’t touch anything in there, and you have to wear
a mask to avoid frostbite to your pulmonary system. You stay in for no more
than three minutes.

What is the medical claim? Unfortunately, as it is with so many alternative
therapies, cryosaunas are claimed to cure just about anything the proprietor
says, and they all have different spiels. Most all of them say it treats
inflammation, skin conditions, and aids in workout recovery. There are several
spas, plus chiropractors and other alternative practitioners near me who offer
cryotherapy, according to Yelp.

Almost all of the customer reviews are raving. Here are some samples:

    “My inflammation almost immediately decreased and I felt a huge wave of
    euphoria similar to a runner’s high.”

    “Felt great afterwards. Will try again to see if I have any lasting
    effects.”

    “I feel euphorically energized after each session and I have noticed that
    my tendinitis has gotten better after 2 sessions.”

    “I feel so good afterwards. I can tell this cryotherapy is helping to heal
    my body!”

Why do these people feel so good unless there’s something to cryosauna therapy?
Is it possible their reaction comes from something other than genuine treatment
of some medical condition? The evidence shows that it probably is.

Continue Reading at Skeptoid – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Shadow People and Sleep Paralysis

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 9, 2015
Posted in: Brain Works, Creatures, Demons, Educational, Ghosts, Haunted, Human
Perception, Legends, Myths, Paranormal, Perception, Science, Spirits,
supernatural, Superstition. Tagged: dreams, hallucinations, haunted, incubus,
mind, nightmares, Paralysis, parasomnia, shadow people, Sleep paralysis, slow
paralysis, Stuff They Don't Want You to Know, Succubus, suffocation,
superstition. Leave a comment

By Stuff They Don’t Want You to Know via YouTube

    Since the dawn of civilization, nightmares have haunted the human mind. But
    what are they, exactly? Why do some people think they’re more than
    hallucinations? Listen in to learn about the superstition and science
    surrounding sleep paralysis.

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Paul Ryan’s Weird illuminati Hand Symbol

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 6, 2015
Posted in: Conspiracy, Debunk, Fun Stuff, Government, Humor, Illuminati, New
World Order, Secret Societies. Tagged: conspiracies, conspiracists, Conspiracy,
conspiracy theories, conspiracy theorist, conspiracy theorists, conspiracy
theory, Hand Symbol, Illuminati, New World Order, NWO, Paranoid Conspiracy
Theorists, Paul Ryan, Speaker, The New World Order. 3 Comments

I can’t believe i’m even writing about this, but here goes …

On October 29, 2015, Paul Ryan was sworn in as the next Speaker in the U.S.
House of Representatives.

During the ceremony, Paul Ryan pointed at somebody on the house floor and then
made this gesture:

Ryan Hand Gesture_0450px

What ever could it mean?

Conspiracists called it some kind of “weird hand symbol” that was “reminiscent
of the illuminati symbol that’s everywhere.” (Source: https://archive.is/Mnk9d)

So i made a video to explain the hand gesture and make fun of conspiracists.
Enjoy :)

Mason I. Bilderberg

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Superbrain Yoga is BS

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 4, 2015
Posted in: Alternative Medicine, Health, Magic, Pseudoscientific, Quackery,
Science, Spirituality. Tagged: health, medicine, NeuroLogica Blog, neuroscience
, pseudoscience, science, Steven Novella, Superbrain, Superbrain Yoga, Yoga. 
Leave a comment

steven_novellaby Steven Novella via NeuroLogica Blog

Here is the latest fad to make you smarter with one easy trick – Superbrain
Yoga. The technique is simple (and worthless, but we’ll get to that).

All you have to do is touch your left hand to your right earlobe, your right
hand to your left earlobe, take a deep breath, and do a squat. Who knew it
could be so easy to improve your brain function. There are a few more details,
helpfully shared by Parenting Special Needs magazine:

    – Connect your tongue to your palate.
    – Face East
    – The left arm must be inside and the right arm must be outside (over the
    left arm).
    – Inhale while squatting down and exhale while standing up.
    – You thumbs should be touching the front part of your earlobes, index
    fingers behind the earlobes.
    – Perform the exercise 14-21 times, once or twice a day.

Facing East is very important, because magic.

superbrain-yoga_0450px

When I first heard of Superbrain Yoga I thought it was going to be a
neuroscience-based pseudoscience, with some hand-waving explanations about
blood flow or something. This one is actually blatantly spiritual magical
nonsense.

    This practice is based on the principles of subtle energy and ear
    acupuncture. Basically, SuperBrain Yoga allows energy from your lower
    chakras–or energy centers–to move up to the forehead and crown chakras.
    When this happens, this energy is transformed into subtle energy, which is
    utilized by the brain to enhance its proper functioning.

It’s Eastern mysticism, however, which is a far-off exotic culture, so that
makes it OK.

Continue Reading at NeuroLogica Blog – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

What is Miracle Mineral Supplement/Solution?

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on November 2, 2015
Posted in: Alternative Medicine, Autism, Educational, Health, Homeopathy,
Medical, Pseudoscientific, Quackery, Science. Tagged: Autism, Cancer, enemas,
HIV, Jim Humble, malaria, Miracle Mineral Solution, Miracle Mineral Supplement,
MMS, sodium chlorite, toxic, toxic compound, youtube. Leave a comment

By Myles Power via YouTube

From the video description:

    What was once known as Miracle Mineral Supplement, but for legal reasons
    had to change its name to Miracle Mineral Solution (MMS), is a 28% sodium
    chlorite solution in distilled water currently being sold online as a
    cure-all tonic. Jim Humble, the man who coined the name and who is also the
    self-styled Archbishop of his own church (Genesis II), believes that once
    “activated” by an acidic solution, MMS can be used to cure people of our
    most feared illnesses including HIV, cancer, and malaria.

    In reality MMS is a harmful mixture of toxic compounds that is being
    aggressively marketed online as a panacea to very sick and unconsenting
    children. Put simply, it’s the worst kind of woo and should be avoided at
    all costs.

    MISTAKE! i mixed up chloride and chlorite at the start.

    Continue Reading – – –

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Update: 11/02/2015: Related Link: Man Who Sold Industrial Chemical As “Miracle
Mineral Solution” Sentenced To 51 Months In Jail (consumerist.com)

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

The Impossible Pink Cards

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on October 30, 2015
Posted in: Fun Stuff, Illusions, Magic, Magician. Tagged: illusion, magic,
trick, youtube. Leave a comment

By Quirkology via YouTube

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Spooky Science: Paranormal Beliefs Linked to Fearful Worldview

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on October 29, 2015
Posted in: Afterlife, Aliens, Ancient Aliens, Astrology, Bigfoot, Creatures,
Demons, Ghosts, Haunted, Mind Reading, Myths, Numerology, Paranormal,
Poltergeist, possession, Psychics, Seance, Spirits, Spirituality, supernatural,
Superstition, Urban Legends. Tagged: alien, Aliens, Ancient Aliens, Bigfoot,
Elizabeth Palermo, Fear, government, haunt, haunting, LiveScience, mythical,
paranormal, phobias, psychic, science, spirits, supernatural, Survey of
American Fear. Leave a comment

By Elizabeth Palermo via LiveScience.com

ghostly_173People who believe in ghosts may be more afraid of actual,
real-world dangers — things like violent crimes or nuclear war — than are
people who don’t hold paranormal beliefs, a new survey finds.

The Survey of American Fear asked people in the United States to divulge the
terrors that keep them up at night. For the survey, nearly 1,500 participants
responded to questions about 88 different fears and anxieties, ranging from
commonplace phobias (like fear of heights) to less tangible concerns (like fear
of government corruption). The survey also asked participants about their
beliefs concerning paranormal and mythical things, like ghosts, Bigfoot and
ancient aliens.

An inforgraphic demonstrating the paranormal beliefs included in the Fear
Survey. Credit: Chapman University

An inforgraphic demonstrating the paranormal beliefs included in the Fear
Survey.
Credit: Chapman University

“The reason we ask [about paranormal things] on the survey is that we’re
interested in finding out what kind of clusters of beliefs tend to be
associated with fear,” Christopher Bader, a professor of sociology at Chapman
University in California and leader of the second annual Fear Survey, told Live
Science.

ouija-board-gifLast year in the survey, researchers asked questions that gauged
the respondents’ scientific reasoning. This was done to find out how the
individuals’ knowledge of scientific ideas (how electricity works, why the sun
sets in the west, etc.) related to those respondents’ fears. But this year, the
focus was on supernatural beliefs, not scientific ones.

Bader and his colleagues found that quite a few Americans hold paranormal
beliefs. The most common of these is the belief that spirits can haunt
particular places; 41.4 percent of the demographically representative group of
participants said they held this belief. A lot of Americans (26.5 percent) also
think that the living and the dead can communicate with each other in some way,
the survey found.

Many survey participants said  .  .  .

Continue Reading at LiveScience.com – – –

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Antibiotics in Beef

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on October 27, 2015
Posted in: Debunk, Educational, Health, Medical, Myths, Science. Tagged:
antibiotics, bacteria, Beef, EPA, FDA, preemptive claim, ractopamine,
sub-therapeutic antibiotic, The Feeding Tube, US Food Safety and Inspection
Service. Leave a comment

By The Feeding Tube via YouTube

Read the transcript on YouTube

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Debunked: Floating City Above China | Metabunk

Posted by Mason I. Bilderberg (MIB) on October 25, 2015
Posted in: Debunk, Educational, Hoax, Illusions, Optical Illusion, Perception.
Tagged: China, debunk, Debunked, Fata Morgana, Floating City, Foshan, Guangdong
province, illusion, metabunk, mirage, optical illusion, Video, youtube. Leave a
comment

Have you seen the YouTube video of the impossibly large city floating above the
fog in the city of Foshan, Guangdong province, China?

Floating City China

As with most phenomenon there is a very logical explanation and the good people
over at MetaBunk.org have the explanation.

Click on over to Metabunk to find out how this illusion was achieved! :)

Mason I. Bilderberg

Share this:

  • Click to share on Print & PDF (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to email (Opens in new window)
  • Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posts navigation

← Older Entries

  • iLLumiNuTTi on FaceBook

    Visit us on FaceBook for additional content and don't forget to "LIKE" us
    while you're there! [illuminati]
  • Got a Story? Submit A Story!

    To submit a story send an email to tips@illuminuti.com and include a web
    link URL to the story.

    [illuminate]
  • Follow illuminutti

    Enter your email address to follow illuminutti.

    Join 801 other followers

    [                    ]

    [Follow]

  • Search

    Search for: [                    ] [Search]
  • Categories

      □ 2012 (29)
      □ 9/11 (109)
      □ Acupuncture (30)
      □ Afterlife (125)
      □ Agenda 21 (14)
      □ Alex Jones (130)
      □ Aliens (253)
      □ Alternative Medicine (179)
      □ Ancient Aliens (21)
      □ Angels (13)
      □ Apocalypse (69)
      □ Area 51 (53)
      □ Aromatherapy (3)
      □ Assassination (64)
      □ Astrology (96)
      □ Auras (22)
      □ Autism (17)
      □ Bermuda Triangle (11)
      □ Bible Code (3)
      □ Bigfoot (37)
      □ Bizarre (135)
      □ Brain Works (314)
      □ Brainwash (11)
      □ Cattle Mutilations (15)
      □ ChemClouds (83)
      □ ChemTrails (123)
      □ Chip Coffey (10)
      □ Climate Change (38)
      □ Climate Disruption (16)
      □ Comedy (109)
      □ Conspiracy (654)
      □ Cover-up (64)
      □ Creatures (127)
      □ Crop Circles (21)
      □ Cryptids (14)
      □ Cults (33)
      □ David Icke (59)
      □ Debunk (292)
      □ Deepak Chopra (11)
      □ Demons (30)
      □ Derek Acorah (27)
      □ Disinformation (60)
      □ Doomsday (65)
      □ Educational (480)
      □ ESP (35)
      □ Espionage (4)
      □ Exorcism (13)
      □ Fail (26)
      □ False Flag (81)
      □ Federal Reserve (36)
      □ FEMA Camps (85)
      □ Feng Shui (1)
      □ Flat Earth (3)
      □ Fluoridation (20)
      □ Food Babe (13)
      □ Fraud (140)
      □ Fun Stuff (345)
      □ Geeky Stuff (86)
      □ Geoengineering (18)
      □ George Anderson (30)
      □ Ghosts (171)
      □ Global Warming (45)
      □ GMO (68)
      □ God (16)
      □ Government (265)
      □ HAARP (42)
      □ Haunted (148)
      □ Health (266)
      □ History (24)
      □ Hoax (164)
      □ Holocaust (12)
      □ Homeopathy (107)
      □ Horoscope (50)
      □ Human Perception (306)
      □ Human-Alien Hybrids (32)
      □ Humor (108)
      □ Hypnosis (17)
      □ Illuminati (82)
      □ Illusions (69)
      □ Jade Helm 15 (6)
      □ James Randi (41)
      □ James Van Praagh (35)
      □ Jersey Devil (4)
      □ JFK (44)
      □ John Edward (41)
      □ John Hutchison (1)
      □ Legends (30)
      □ Leonardo da Vinci (2)
      □ Levitation (6)
      □ Ley Lines (3)
      □ Magic (81)
      □ Magician (15)
      □ Matrix (9)
      □ Mayans (26)
      □ Medical (284)
      □ mentalist (13)
      □ Metaphysics (64)
      □ Military (7)
      □ Mind Control (50)
      □ Mind Reading (55)
      □ Moon Landing (49)
      □ Moron (39)
      □ Murder (1)
      □ Mysteries (252)
      □ Myths (255)
      □ NASA (16)
      □ New World Order (237)
      □ Nostradamus (3)
      □ Numerology (4)
      □ Optical Illusion (64)
      □ Organic (40)
      □ Ouija (5)
      □ Out of Body/Near Death (32)
      □ Paranoid (216)
      □ Paranormal (215)
      □ Pareidolia (3)
      □ Past Life Regression (8)
      □ Perception (204)
      □ Peter Popoff (16)
      □ Philosophy (4)
      □ Phobia (8)
      □ Physics (33)
      □ Poltergeist (9)
      □ possession (21)
      □ Precognition (58)
      □ Prophecy (74)
      □ Pseudohistory (116)
      □ Pseudoscientific (484)
      □ Psychics (182)
      □ Psychokinesis (4)
      □ Psychology (230)
      □ Pyramids (25)
      □ Quackery (242)
      □ Reiki (23)
      □ Reincarnation (6)
      □ Religion (41)
      □ Roswell (48)
      □ Satire (14)
      □ Scams (109)
      □ Science (420)
      □ Science Fiction (33)
      □ Scientology (16)
      □ Seance (23)
      □ Secret Societies (212)
      □ Skepticism (182)
      □ Sovereign Citizen (2)
      □ Spirits (193)
      □ Spirituality (104)
      □ Spontaneous Human Combustion (5)
      □ Stonehenge (6)
      □ Story Telling (99)
      □ Stunt (9)
      □ supernatural (230)
      □ Superstition (172)
      □ Sylvia Browne (31)
      □ Technology (47)
      □ Telekinesis (14)
      □ Telepathy (54)
      □ Time Travel (27)
      □ Titanic (5)
      □ UFO (208)
      □ Uncategorized (198)
      □ Urban Legends (215)
      □ Uri Geller (15)
      □ Vaccinations (55)
      □ Vampires (6)
      □ Zombie (6)
  • Recent Posts

      □ The ugly side of the “chemtrail” conspiracy
      □ 10 Scary Facts About Mind-Control
      □ The Most Plausible Apollo Moon Landing Conspiracy Ever Devised
      □ Palmistry and Its Practical Uses
      □ The Vanishing
  • Links

      □ 100 Errors in Oliver Stone's JFK
      □ Anti-Vaccine Body Count
      □ Blue Book Archive
      □ Chemtrails Debunked (Skeptic Project)
      □ CleverBot
      □ Climate Depot
      □ Committee for Skeptical Inquiry
      □ Contrail Science
      □ Debunkatron
      □ Debunking Denialism
      □ Dihydrogen Monoxide
      □ Doubtful News
      □ Dr. Susan Blackmore
      □ Elizabeth F. Loftus
      □ Fallacy Files
      □ Get Polling
      □ GhostTheory
      □ Homeopathy: there's nothing in it | The 10:23 Campaign
      □ Is that a FEMA Camp?
      □ James Randi
      □ JFK Assassination Records Collection (archives.gov)
      □ JFK Assassination Resources Online
      □ JFK Warren Commission Report (archives.gov)
      □ Joe Nickell
      □ Logical Fallacies
      □ Logical Fallacies
      □ Metabunk
      □ Michael Shermer
      □ Moon Base Clavius
      □ New Age Bullshit Generator
      □ Quack Watch
      □ Quote Investigator
      □ Radiation Network
      □ RationalWiki
      □ Science-Based Medicine
      □ Scottish Rite of Freemasonry
      □ Skeptic's Dictionary
      □ SkepticWars
      □ The Skeptic's Dictionary
      □ The Soap Box
      □ The Straight Dope
      □ UFO files • UK National Archives
      □ Watts Up With That?
  • Loose Screws

      □ Flat Earth Society
      □ Random Deepak Chopra Quote Generator – Wisdom of Chopra
  • Most popular categories

    9/11 2012 Acupuncture Afterlife Alex Jones Aliens Alternative Medicine
    Apocalypse Area 51 Assassination Astrology Bigfoot Bizarre Brain Works
    ChemClouds ChemTrails Climate Change Comedy Conspiracy Cover-up Creatures
    Cults David Icke Debunk Demons Disinformation Doomsday Educational ESP
    False Flag Federal Reserve FEMA Camps Fraud Fun Stuff Geeky Stuff George
    Anderson Ghosts Global Warming GMO Government HAARP Haunted Health Hoax
    Homeopathy Horoscope Human-Alien Hybrids Human Perception Humor Illuminati
    Illusions James Randi James Van Praagh JFK John Edward Legends Magic
    Medical Metaphysics Mind Control Mind Reading Moon Landing Moron Mysteries
    Myths New World Order Optical Illusion Organic Out of Body/Near Death
    Paranoid Paranormal Perception Physics Precognition Prophecy Pseudohistory
    Pseudoscientific Psychics Psychology Quackery Religion Roswell Scams
    Science Science Fiction Secret Societies Skepticism Spirits Spirituality
    Story Telling supernatural Superstition Sylvia Browne Technology Telepathy
    Time Travel UFO Uncategorized Urban Legends Vaccinations
  • Archives

      □ January 2016
      □ December 2015
      □ November 2015
      □ October 2015
      □ September 2015
      □ August 2015
      □ July 2015
      □ June 2015
      □ May 2015
      □ April 2015
      □ March 2015
      □ February 2015
      □ January 2015
      □ December 2014
      □ November 2014
      □ October 2014
      □ September 2014
      □ August 2014
      □ July 2014
      □ June 2014
      □ May 2014
      □ April 2014
      □ March 2014
      □ February 2014
      □ January 2014
      □ December 2013
      □ November 2013
      □ October 2013
      □ September 2013
      □ August 2013
      □ July 2013
      □ June 2013
      □ May 2013
      □ April 2013
      □ March 2013
      □ February 2013
      □ January 2013
      □ December 2012
      □ November 2012
      □ October 2012
      □ September 2012
      □ August 2012
      □ July 2012
      □ June 2012
      □ May 2012
      □ April 2012

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Parament Theme.
Follow

Follow “Illuminutti”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 801 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ]
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
