Skip to content

Thankfully prophecy is not a real thing

Menu

  • Contact

Deception

01/18/1601/18/16 | Judeo Chrislam

4f3654d5f3543-640x479Teaching a child to be confident regarding that about
which you yourself have doubt, is negligent in the least.

01/16/1601/16/16 | Judeo Chrislam

67b33b1269d4e98ff7d977a391082419

 

DOUBT PROPHECY
I define Religion/Theism as being the belief in prophecy. That the creator of
the universe communicates specific ideas to particular human beings.

Since Atheist agree that though there is no evidence of a god, a god may exist,
and once pressed, most religious people will admit to having some doubt
pertaining their strongly held religious convictions, we are essentially all
agnostic. The only distinction between us is that religious people believe that
strange occurrences are God signaling them to accept the words of a particular
prophet, while the rest of us understand that in a world governed by chance,
coincidences will occur.

 

4aa70802105be755f7c66855ba5d9bd7

 

RELIGION IS FALSE
Since all societies throughout recorded history have practiced some form of
religion and the teachings of most religions are incompatible with each other,
we know that most humans practice a false religion, the feeling in our heart
that our particular religion is the one true one, is not credible.

It is an insult to the supreme nature of the atom’s majesty, and the wonder
that is consciousness, to attribute its design to the same entity who wrote a
book giving a particular human a particular piece of a particular planet, or to
accept that at times physics is suspended to accommodate particular humans.

 

595992423_4ed66bb0_main+post+4

 

RELIGION IS BAD
Teaching a child to be confident about the existence of things they can not
observe, compromises their ability to think critically.

Many religions are taught to be in conflict with science like the origin of the
universe, origin of species and probability that our ecosystem is our fragile
essence.

Human conflicts are exacerbated by religion.

Religion destroys our faith in humanity by teaching that without God we would
be savages and world peace requires a supernatural redemption. Focusing on a
world to come, believing that for serenity God provides the afterlife,
compromises our conviction to improve the conditions of this life. Society’s
ills are of our own design, and can be cured only by us.

 

preacher-sevigny

 

SOLUTION
Resolve the ambiguity in our beliefs. By identifying as religious, religious
moderates empower religious fundamentalist. Religious fundamentalists
don’t consider themselves religious fundamentalists, they consider themselves
to be simply religious or even just spiritual. If you doubt that the words “I
am God your lord” are in fact God’s own words, resist the labels religious and
agnostic, irregardless of how karmically conscious you may be. Make a
distinction between those who worship prophecy, and those who understand it to
be unproven. We are not as small a minority as religions need us to be.

“I am a person of faith” should not elicit respect. Adults who claim to know
things they couldn’t possibly know, should be regarded as disturbed.

Degrees of Certainty

01/15/1601/19/16 | Judeo Chrislam

A common defense of faith is, “Since nothing can be known for certain,
believing a book claiming to be written by the creator of the universe, and
being absent of that particular belief, are equally valid positions. 
Claims about the supernatural are just as credible as claims about anything
else.”

If all theories were equally plausible, the universe would have no
consistency and every decision would be speculation of paralyzing
uncertainty. If nothing can be known for certain, there must at least
be degrees of confidence we can depend on. While some things we can be pretty
sure of, other things are highly doubtful. Regarding decisions of significant
consequence, we should only seek the greatest degree of certainty. Faith is
something we most rely on when sufficient evidence is unavailable, not
something we should hold as our greatest aspiration. A distinction can be
made between what you can be confident is real, and highly improbable
superstitious beliefs.

The argument that there can be no distinction between what is real and what is
not, can be used to defend the existence of virtually anything imaginable. If
your argument can be used to support more than one from any number of opposing
views, it compromises your position more than defends it.

is the truthEven though a particular thing might be true, unless you are of the
utmost confidence that it is in fact true, to claim it is true, is
disingenuous in the least.

Another common defense of faith is, “just as we trust medicine to work without
knowing how, religious claims too must be accepted on faith”. However if you
ever hear from a doctor that somethings must be accepted on faith, you’d be
advised to find a new doctor.

If nothing can be known for certain, how come we don’t consider ourselves
agnostic regarding the existence of Santa, the tooth fairy, gravity or the sun?
How come we dare to take a position on everything except against the claims of
religious texts? Agnostic is a term used by atheist looking to appease the
religious and by religious to mitigate the astronomical nature of their claims.

Why are Atheists so mad?

01/13/1601/16/16 | Judeo Chrislam

funny-political-signs-08If the prefix “a” means “not”, the word “Atheist”
simply means “not Theist”. ‘Atheism’ is not to hold any particular belief, such
as the belief that there is no god, but rather it is just the absence of
holding a Theistic belief. Before it can be indoctrinated, every infant is an
Atheist. Since neither Agnostics nor Deists are Theists, they are both forms of
Atheism. Atheist does not equal Adeist.

Vocal Atheists (Anti-theists or Atheologists) are not merely those devoid of
Theism, but are opposed to the notion.

If Theism is a fiction like any other, why do only Atheists exist and not
A-tooth-fairy-ists or A-unicorn-ists? Because those who believe in the
tooth-fairy or unicorn don’t interfere in the lives of others with the likes
of marriage inequality, subjugation of women, Israel/Palestine, ISIS, climate
change denial, science education, population growth, ecclesiastic sex abuse…
and on.

Why are anti-war activists so mad? Why is any opposition bothered by what they
oppose?

However unlike other opposition groups, atheists are often regarded negatively
because what we appose is widely accepted as being the source of love, morality
and all that is good.

Ritual

12/27/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

mr-potatohead11Though there can be no evidence disproving supernatural claims,
there is plenty of reason to suspect that religions are man made.

Spirituality vs. Religion

12/26/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

westboro2To the extent that the supernatural influences human behavior, there
are essentially just two positions, those who believe they have received
specific directives form God via prophets (Theists), and everyone else
(Atheists).

‘Atheism’ is the absence of a theistic belief. On the other hand, the absence
of a deistic belief would be ‘Adeism’. However, this term is unheard of,
because unlike theism, there is no reason why anyone absent of a deistic belief
would care to make a distinction between themselves and Deists. Since a Deistic
god is not concerned with human affairs, the actions of a Deist aren’t
influenced by their ideology.

Fascism ≠ Atheism

12/26/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

“What about the role of Atheism in fascism?”

If you’re suggesting that Atheists are more prone to committing genocide, bless
your heart.

If you’re suggesting that we must ignore any consequences of religion in hope
of deterring any dictators determined to commit genocide, why would I consider
it a deterrent when I myself don’t fear a god? 

Or perhaps you’re suggesting we lie to ourselves about the existence of
supernatural creatures merely to avoid sharing knowledge of a truth with the
wrong men?

One can be driven to a particular action solely by a particular ideology, get
emboldened by the ideology to pursue what they already had in mind, and/or do
things entirely uninfluenced by their ideology.

937b8289236003cf8f47f19460851e14 (2)The catholic church celebrated Hitler’s
birthday every year until his death. In 1943 the church declared Stalin “The
Divinely Anointed Ruler”. Mao ruled as himself a god. Whether religious
extremists are driven by their religion or merely emboldened by it, is
arguable, but if any of these tyrannical communists and socialists were in fact
absent of theistic beliefs, it certainly wasn’t a position as present in their
conduct, as God is in the actions of religious extremists.

“Find a society that said we adopted the teachings of Lucretius, Democritus,
Galileo, Spinoza, Darwin, Russell, Jefferson, Thomas Paine and Albert
Einstein, we make that, scientific and rational humanism our teachings, find me
the state that did that and fell in to tyranny, slavery, famine, torture and
genocide, then we’ll be on a level playing field.” -Christopher Hitchens

Humanity

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

e05a5527e0b416c53c47620c731f931cIf you need religion in order to be a good
person, you’re not a good person.

Knowledge

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

ctc_02_img0546It is unfair to waste a child’s most receptive years teaching
them untestable theories as truth. (In developed countries many
religious elementary schools still don’t teach math and science.)

Intuition

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

smurfIs it possible that members of religions other than your own are just as
confident that theirs is the one true religion, as you are it is yours?

Evidence

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

825637-mosesNo amount of historical records could convince me that nature is
sometimes suspended.

Suspicious

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

Untitled-3Why is it that the religion most people find to be true, just so
happens to be the very one they were born into?

Information

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

11029939_1104806016212495_3531172106327140497_nI don’t claim there is no god. I
only submit that any claim that there is a god, is no more credible than any
other work of fiction.

Literature

12/25/1501/15/16 | Judeo Chrislam

truth bookDon’t believe everything you read, especially when the author claims
to be the creator of the universe.

Literature

01/19/1601/19/16 | Judeo Chrislam

Virtuous sensibility: “Thou shalt not kill”

Detrimental nonsense: “I am the Lord thy God”

Deism is a form of atheism.

01/18/1601/18/16 | Judeo Chrislam

A = Not

Theist = One who believes in an intervening god.

I am an atheist who believes in God. I believe the world was created by
a conscious being. I don’t believe this being wrote a book giving a
specific human a specific piece of land, split a sea or suspends nature in any
way.

Christianity is not a Religion?

01/16/16 | Judeo Chrislam

11029939_1104806016212495_3531172106327140497_nI often hear that “Christianity
is not a Religion”. If Christianity is to believe in creation, revelation,
redemption and salvation, in what way is it any less a religion than say
Judaism or Islam?

Atheism is a Religion?

01/16/1601/16/16 | Judeo Chrislam

750x500-ehow-images-a02-3l-d5-do-threecup-shuffle-magic-trick-800x800Religious
People often insist that atheism is a religion in attempt to show how atheists
are hypocrites who at once both are religious and appose religion. This is a
logical fallacy known as ‘equivocation’, where one definition of a word is
deceptively substituted for a second definition. If you define religion to be
‘any strongly held belief’, some forms of atheism (namely anti-theism) may
indeed be considered a religion, if you define religion as most of us do, to
mean ‘theism’, atheism is not only not a religion, but it’s antithesis.

Beyond Understanding

01/14/16 | Judeo Chrislam

2012-11-03 Being Curious 02If we posses any faculty seaming to exist beyond our
physical being, it is our capacity for critically thought. Ironically this is
the one attribute religion insists we neglects.

Posts navigation

Previous
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | The Sketch Theme.
Thankfully prophecy is not a real thing
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. The Sketch Theme.
Follow

Follow “Thankfully prophecy is not a real thing”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 435 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
