Conway Freethinkers

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Facebook
  • Meetup.com
  • Meetings

Select Page
[ConwayFree]

We are a group of atheists, agnostics, skeptics, and secular humanists in
Conway, Arkansas.

Meet local people of like minds: atheists, agnostics, skeptics, Brights,
non-theists, secular humanists and freethinkers… etc., etc.. Gather to discuss
philosophies, ideas, and to make new friends. Learn about other similar
organizations and how to network with them to advance the current secular
movement in America and to advocate for freedom of (and freedom from) religion
by supporting the United States Bill of Rights.



Meet Us

Join us locally in Conway, Arkansas. We do a monthly meetup at a local
restaurant and other activities such as movie night, bowling night, game night
and yearly we usually do a picnic and a camping trip.



Join us online

Can’t join us in person? You can join us online at Facebook. Like our page to
keep up with local happenings



Contact Us

Got Questions? Click here to send us an email.

Board Games @ Mizewell

Date: 2016-01-16
Time: 16:00
Where: Mizewell Games

Our friends at Central Arkansas Geek Club have invited us to join them for
board game night at Mizewell Games. Blood rage, cosmic encounter, avalon, and
more. Bring your own games, bring friends, have fun!

This is a great event if you are new to gaming or an experienced gamer.

Sign up here

Conway Freethinkers Monthly Meetup

Date: 2017-01-06
Time: 18:30
Where:

Join this group and get acquainted with people just like you… non-religious.

The monthly dinner meetup is a great first-step if you are new to the group. We
try to select a casual, comfortable environment and the meeting itself is
pretty easy-going. Most times the conversation will flow between topics related
to secularism, current events, and geeky pop-culture topics. The meetup is
scheduled for 6:30, but don’t worry if you get off work late – we’ll probably
be here for awhile.

Sign up here

UCA OBSERVATORY NIGHT

Date: 2016-04-20
Time: 21:00
Where: UCA LSC

[event_8675]

Join our own Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics,
and Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA, for a look at the heavens (the
REAL heavens)!

</a>If the sky is mostly clear, the UCA Observatory will be open to the public
for views of planets, stars, star clusters, and nebulae through the 14-inch
aperture telescope. Stairs to the observatory are located in the front lobby of
Lewis Science Center.

[event_8675]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Observatory Homepage

Sign up here

UCA OBSERVATORY NIGHT

Date: 2016-04-06
Time: 20:30
Where: UCA LSC

[event_8675]

Join our own Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics,
and Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA, for a look at the heavens (the
REAL heavens)!

</a>If the sky is mostly clear, the UCA Observatory will be open to the public
for views of planets, stars, star clusters, and nebulae through the 14-inch
aperture telescope. Stairs to the observatory are located in the front lobby of
Lewis Science Center.

[event_8675]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Observatory Homepage

Sign up here

UCA OBSERVATORY NIGHT

Date: 2016-03-16
Time: 20:00
Where: UCA LSC

[event_8675]

Join our own Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics,
and Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA, for a look at the heavens (the
REAL heavens)!

</a>If the sky is mostly clear, the UCA Observatory will be open to the public
for views of planets, stars, star clusters, and nebulae through the 14-inch
aperture telescope. Stairs to the observatory are located in the front lobby of
Lewis Science Center.

[event_8675]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Observatory Homepage

Sign up here

UCA OBSERVATORY NIGHT

Date: 2016-03-02
Time: 19:30
Where: UCA LSC

[event_8675]

Join our own Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics,
and Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA, for a look at the heavens (the
REAL heavens)!

</a>If the sky is mostly clear, the UCA Observatory will be open to the public
for views of planets, stars, star clusters, and nebulae through the 14-inch
aperture telescope. Stairs to the observatory are located in the front lobby of
Lewis Science Center.

[event_8675]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Observatory Homepage

Sign up here

UCA OBSERVATORY NIGHT

Date: 2016-02-17
Time: 19:00
Where: UCA LSC

[event_8675]

Join our own Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics,
and Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA, for a look at the heavens (the
REAL heavens)!

</a>If the sky is mostly clear, the UCA Observatory will be open to the public
for views of planets, stars, star clusters, and nebulae through the 14-inch
aperture telescope. Stairs to the observatory are located in the front lobby of
Lewis Science Center.

[event_8675]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Observatory Homepage

Sign up here

UCA PLANETARIUM SHOW

Date: 2016-02-03
Time: 19:00
Where: UCA LSC

</a>

<a href=”http://faculty.uca.edu/saustin/Astronomy/planetarium.html”>

[event_8677]

Join Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics, and
Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA and the general public, for a tour
of the night skies. (rain or shine) The UCA Planetarium simulates the night sky
visible to the naked-eye onto a 30-foot diameter dome with a Spitz 512
projector.

</a>The facility is used for astronomy classes and laboratories, field-trip
shows, and monthly public shows. The planetarium is located in the Lewis
Science Center room 10. Seating is limited to the first 60 people to arrive
before the show starts.  No admittance after 7pm, so don’t be late!

[event_8676]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Planetarium Homepage

Sign up here

UCA OBSERVATORY NIGHT

Date: 2016-01-20
Time: 18:00
Where: UCA LSC

[event_8675]

Join our own Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics,
and Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA, for a look at the heavens (the
REAL heavens)!

</a>If the sky is mostly clear, the UCA Observatory will be open to the public
for views of planets, stars, star clusters, and nebulae through the 14-inch
aperture telescope. Stairs to the observatory are located in the front lobby of
Lewis Science Center.

[event_8675]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Observatory Homepage

Sign up here

UCA PLANETARIUM SHOW

Date: 2016-01-06
Time: 19:00
Where: UCA LSC

</a>

<a href=”http://faculty.uca.edu/saustin/Astronomy/planetarium.html”>

[event_8677]

Join Dr. Scott Austin, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Physics, and
Director of Astronomical Facilities at UCA and the general public, for a tour
of the night skies. (rain or shine) The UCA Planetarium simulates the night sky
visible to the naked-eye onto a 30-foot diameter dome with a Spitz 512
projector.

</a>The facility is used for astronomy classes and laboratories, field-trip
shows, and monthly public shows. The planetarium is located in the Lewis
Science Center room 10. Seating is limited to the first 60 people to arrive
before the show starts.  No admittance after 7pm, so don’t be late!

[event_8676]

<a href=”http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?msid=
204830330539233634512.0004b6bce7e18044ec245&msa=0&ll=35.079741,-92.456796&spn=
0.014663,0.022488″>Campus Map

UCA Planetarium Homepage

Sign up here

<< Older Entries

  • Facebook
  • Twitter

Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress

