Logo San Diego Humanist Association

  • Home
  • About
  • What We Do
  • Coffee & Conversation
  • Events
  • Invocations & Proclamations
  • Community Service
  • Weddings
  • Conference

Welcome

We are the Humanist Association of San Diego, a community organization that
promotes humanist philosophy & values, the separation of church and state, and
cilvil rights through discussions, lectures, outings, and community service
events. We have been active since 1970, and a proud chartered chapter of the
American Humanist Association since 1973.

Please click on the title of the event to be directed to our Meetup.com page
 location and other details will be available there.

Humanist Association in December:

We haven’t updated the site in a couple of months (most of our group’s
correspondence is on Meetup). But for December we are going to be having our
weekly current events discussion group at Panera Bread in Hillcrest (check
meetup), on the 9th we are going to have a discussion on Women in Islam, and
celebrating HumanLight on Sunday December 20th at the Joyce Beers Center in
Hillcrest.

We will be updating the page for our 2016 plans and schedule.

July & August

July

555religion-jesus-pizza

July 1st (Wednesday): Cards Against Humanity Pizza Party. One of our group
members that was highly active until she moved away is back for a visit. Please
join us at a “Cards Against Humanity” Pizza Party. We are celebrating her San
Diego return, Shelayne (“think shell with a brain”) Nicole will be here. As the
title says, we will be having a party that Shelayne will be at and there will
be people playing Cards against Humanity. Also please RSVP so we know how much
pizza to get, also bringing a snack/ (adult) beverage to share is encouraged.

privilege-fireworks

July 4th (Saturday): Independence (from Dogma) Day Party & Fireworks Show.
Every year, we get together for the best seat in the house for Sea World’s
fireworks display. At Mickey’s shop (Crack in the Wall Framing) there is a
large parking lot with plenty of available parking, and a great vantage point
to watch the show. As the Fourth falls on a Saturday, we will be holding Coffee
& Conversation at Crack in the Wall at 6. This will be a potluck dinner (please
list what you would like to bring in your RSVP), and then we will hang out to
watch the sky light up in patriotic delight.

51QMREG4H2L._SY344_BO1,204,203,200_

July 9th (Thursday): “The Politics of Sin in American History,” a topic and
book discussion of James Morone’s Hellfire Nation. ***we had to reschedule from
Wednesday to Thursday-sorry for the inconvenience.

July 11, 18, & 25th (Saturday): Coffee & Conversation.

July 19th (Sunday): Humanism & Human Rights.

 

August

August 1, 8, 15, 22, 29th (Saturday): Coffee & Conversation.

August 5th (Wednesday): “An evening of basic stats for not statisticians,” an
overview of basic descriptive and inferential statistics-and a discussion of
Nate Silver’s Signal in the Noise.

August 16th (Sunday):

ROY ZIMMERMAN: THE FAUCET’S ON FIRE!

FOF - san diego

What can one person do about climate change, torture, racism, gun violence,
fracking, Congressional ineptitude, ignorance, war and greed?  Write funny
songs, says Roy Zimmerman.  “The Faucet’s on Fire!” is ninety minutes of
Zimmerman’s hilarious, rhyme-intensive original songs.  His songs have been
heard on HBO and Showtime.  He’s shared stages with Bill Maher, Robin Williams,
Ellen DeGeneres, John Oliver, Kate Clinton and George Carlin.  He’s been
profiled on NPR’s “All Things Considered,” and he’s a featured blogger for the
Huffington Post.

Tickets are available at the door ($15 general, $10 student).

YouTube links:
“The Faucet’s on Fire!” – http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VFD72ECm_CM
“To Be a Liberal” – https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f3qgiNPVpSM
“Creation Science 101″ – http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uIwiPsgRrOs
“My Vote, My Voice, My Right” – https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6-X-uBIqeVM

_________________________________________

“Humanism is a progressive philosophy of life that, without supernaturalism,
affirms our ability to and responsibility to lead ethical lives of personal
fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity” (preamble to Humanist
Manifesto III).

“Humanism is the Joyous Service for the greater good of all humanity in this
natural world and advocating the methods of reason, science, and democracy”
(Corliss Lamont [1949], The Philosophy of Humanism).

The Humanist Community is a broad umbrella covering Agnostics, Atheists,
Deists, Ethical Culturists, and those of a liberal-progressive
secular-religious tradition who come together to use our creative,
intelligence, and experience; guided by compassion to make this world a better
place, and to become better people in the process, together. We Humanists place
our concern in this world, united by our love of humanity, and driven by our
ever present optimism in our ability to improve the human condition.

Leave a Reply Cancel reply

You must be logged in to post a comment.

Donate

Level
[General $50.00 USD            ]

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
外送茶外送茶 ugg ブーツ携帯買取白ロム買取

Copyright San Diego Humanist Association 2010

Powered by Your Inspiration Themes

