 Humanists Doing Good

thoreau.jpg

  • HDG Home
  • News and Events
      □ Event Calendar
      □ Newsletter
      □ Subscribe To Newsletter
      □ Meetup.com Site
  • Who We Are
      □ Mission Statement
      □ Vision Statement
      □ Our Community
      □ Our Location
      □ Humanism and Its Aspirations
      □ Why It Matters
      □ Links on Humanism
  • What We Do
      □ Activism and Key Issues
      □ Education
      □ Fellowship and Socializing
      □ Fun and Games
      □ Our Approach
      □ Why It Matters
  • What You Can Do
      □ Ask For Help
      □ Donate
      □ Guest Presentations
      □ Learn
      □ Sponsor
      □ Request Good Deed for Other
      □ Visit With Us
      □ Volunteer To Do Good
  • Join Us
      □ Become a Volunteer
      □ Our Community
      □ Our Location
  • Photo Gallery
  • Chaplain Services
  • Donate
  • Facebook Group
  • Meetup.com Site
  • Contact Us

Online Ordering

  • Membership & Merchandise
  • Account Information
  • Checkout

Welcome To Humanists Doing Good!

We are a nonprofit community of compassionate and rational people doing good
for the sake of good. We are always looking for more people to join our cause
and invite you to learn more about our organization and our beliefs. You just
may be surprised to learn that great minds such as Albert Einstein have shared
our vision.

Humanists Doing Good focuses on improving our lives by improving the lives of
others.

 

Donate to Humanists Doing Good Join Humanists Doing Good Volunteer To Do Good

                                        

 

 
Visit our Facebook Group - or - Visit our Facebook Page

Jan. 23rd, 2016 - Painting the CLAWS Cat Shelter

[volunteer-]

CLAWS is the largest cat shelter on the Western Slope. CLAWS is run 95% on
volunteers and they are a no kill shelter. All Cats will live there until they
are adopted.

We will be painting the inside of the shelter. Please join us. Wear clothes you
do not mind getting dirty. There will be many cats to play with. If you are
allergic to cats please know that the cats are not always caged. We hope to see
you there!! If you would like more information on the organization please visit
their website: http://www.clawsgj.org/

When: Saturday, January 23rd at Noon

Where: 2214 Sanford Drive #A

Click here to RSVP on our meetup site.

Share

Jan. 16th, 2016 - Book Drive & Potluck

We'll be starting 2016 with a book drive and potluck event that will both help
our community and help our members further get to know one another. We are
seeking book donations for our Little Free Library that will be placed in
downtown Fruita. The library is still under construction, but we'd like to make
sure we're able to stock it and keep it fully stocked in the future. Book
donations of nearly all genres are welcomed and will be made available to the
public as part of the lending library system. We will also be having a potluck
that everyone is encouraged to attend. Come out and join fellow HDG members for
some food, sharing ideas and further getting to know one another. If you can
come up with a book theme for your potluck item, you'll get some bonus points
(maybe it's best to avoid Green Eggs and Ham though?).

When: Saturday, January 16th from 10:00 am to Noon

Where: Garden Room at The Commons (625 27 1/2 Road)

Click here to RSVP on our meetup site.

Share

Dec. 25th, 2015 - Treat Delivery

[volunteer-]
We are seeking volunteers who can help deliver treats to people throughout the
valley who we find working or otherwise away from their families during the
holiday. Our goal is to surprise people with our baked treats and brighten
their day as a good deed. Volunteers who have done this in the past have had a
great time and it is always nice to make others smile. We ask that anyone who
would like to volunteer to deliver treats please try to also attend the treat
packaging party on the 24th so that you can pick up your treats for delivery at
that time.

When: Friday, December 25th (You can choose to deliver your treats any time
before 5:00 pm)

Where: We ask that you coordinate with us to cover a particular area of town
that other volunteers will not be covering.

Click here to RSVP on our meetup site to volunteer.

Share

Page 1 of 86

  • Start
  • Prev
  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • 7
  • 8
  • 9
  • 10
  • Next
  • End

joomla template

Humanists Doing Good / PO Box 3434 / Grand Junction, CO  81502

Phone: 970-623-2598

 

[hosting-ba]

free template joomla
