Secular Perspectives

Sponsored by the Washington Area Secular Humanists (WASH).

Saturday, January 23, 2016

RELIGIOUS FREEDOM DAY January 16, 2016, the 230th anniversar

                                       
[religiousf]
Charles Sumner, a church-state separation activist in Tennessee wrote the
following for posting on Blogs.


On the 230th anniversary of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, it is
important for today's generations to understand the tremendous change this
measure represented to world history. Until the American experiment, there had
never been a complete separation between the institutions of religion and
government. Passed by the Virginia legislature in 1786, this statute is
regarded by historians as the precursor of the religious liberty clauses of the
First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

In 1776, Virginia took a step toward disestablishing the Anglican Church. The
leading figure in that monumental change was an Anglican, George Mason. But
Virginia did not stop collecting taxes for the support of the Anglican (soon to
be Episcopal) Church at that time. An Act for Establishing Religious Freedom
was drafted by Thomas Jefferson and introduced into the Virginia General
Assembly in 1779 but not acted upon until 1785, when Jefferson was in France.
At that time the great orator and patriot, Patrick Henry, introduced a general
assessment bill that would continue the tax for religion but alter its
distribution.

At the time of the American Revolution there were established religions in nine
of the 13 colonies, following the European pattern. It meant that one religious
denomination was favored. It often meant you were taxed for someone else's
religion. That became apparent to Patrick Henry because the church that had
received the money no longer was the predominant religion in Virginia. He
proposed that the tax be altered to go to some other denominations as well.  He
called it a tax for "teachers of the Christian religion."

Jefferson's desire was to have no tax for religion, but support for Henry's
bill seemed strong. So James Madison and other supporters of Jefferson's plan
managed to delay action while they let the citizens know of the situation.
Madison, Mason and others circulated petitions.

Madison's argument was made in the now famous "Memorial and Remonstrance
Against Religious Assessments." This document stated, "Who does not see that
the same authority which can establish Christianity, in exclusion of all other
religions, may establish with the same ease any particular sect of Christians,
in exclusion of all other Sects? That the same authority which can force a
citizen to contribute three pence only of his property for the support of any
one establishment, may force him to conform to any other establishment in all
cases whatsoever?"

The wide circulation of this among the citizenry had the desired effect; the
tax for religion failed. And in 1786, the Virginia Statute for Religious
Freedom passed. It was one of the three items Thomas Jefferson wanted
memorialized on his tombstone. It might seem odd, but president of the United
States was not one of the three.

"No man shall be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship, place
or ministry, whatever, nor shall be enforced, restrained, molested, or
burthened in his body or goods, nor shall otherwise suffer on account of his
religious opinions or belief ; but that all men shall be free to profess, and
by argument to maintain, their opinion in matters of  religion, and that the
same shall in no wise diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities," the
statute said.

It was Madison, author of the "Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious
Assessments," who was also the primary architect of the First Amendment and is
regarded as the Father of the Constitution. That gives you a clue as to the
true significance of the religion clauses of the First Amendment.

It might also let you know how Madison and Jefferson would regard a Tennessee
bill that would take tax money from the public schools and channel it to
private schools, most of which are religious schools.

Celebrate Religious Freedom Day by reading these documents and their history.
Celebrate that in the United States, with its separation of church and state,
we have vibrant religions existing not because they are supported by the state
but because people believe in their religion's worth.


CHARLES SUMNER, President-Emeritus, Nashville Chapter
Americans United for Separation of Church and State
PO Box 210005, Nashville TN 37221
Sumner7540@bellsouth.net

BTW, 
[Religious]


Celebrate Religious Freedom with the Fredericksburg Coalition of Reason

Fredericksburg Coalition of Reason (FredCor) will host
Professor Emile Lester on January 10, 2016 as the speaker for the Religious
Freedom Celebration. 

  • January 10 . 2:30 PM
  • Central Rappahannock Regional Library

Posted by Gary Berg-Cross at 11:53 No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Charles Sumner, church-state separation activist, Edd Doerr,
Fredericksburg Coalition of Reason, Patrick Henry, Thomas Jefferson, U.S.
Constitution, Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom

Friday, January 22, 2016

Shopping at Walmart is equivalent to drinking water from the Flint River

[walmart-cartoon1]
Edd Doer cites Courtland Milloy’s Jan 20 column in the Washington Post: 

“To get approval to build three stores in wealthier parts of the city, Walmart
promised to build two in under-served neighborhoods. So they built the three
they wanted. Then, last week, Walmart told city officials that it . . . decided
not to build them. . . . To make room for the new, Walmart-anchored Skyland
Town Center in SE Washington, the city had demolished a tattered but vital
neighborhood economy. . .  Some apartments were also demolished, and residents
were displaced.”

Walmart, probably the world’s largest retailer, is noted for underpaying its
employees, many of whom need food stamps to survive, while exporting American
jobs to foreign sweatshops. Walmart’s incredible profits feed the Walmart
Family Foundation, which in turn pours tsunamis of tax-free money into massive
efforts to undermine public education through vouchers  and charter schools not
answerable to taxpayers. On Jan 13 Education Week reported that the Walton
Family Foundation will now spend $1 billion on its efforts to sabotage public
education.

So the Walton gang is giving the finger to Americans generally, the middle
class (what’s left of it) and the poor (whose numbers are growing), and the
public schools and teachers serving nearly 90% of American kids.

So shopping at Walmart is equivalent to drinking water from the Flint River or
voting for Scott Walker.

 Happy New Year!
[walmart]

Posted by Gary Berg-Cross at 10:33 No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: charter schools, Courtland Milloy, Edd Doerr, Skyland, Walmart, Walmart
Family Foundation, WAPO

Wednesday, January 20, 2016

Muslim Reform Movement embraces secularism and universal human rights

[muslim]
Gabriel Glazer mentions an unusual and noteworthy event in which Muslims
discuss the need for reform of Islam and are ready to act on this perception of
the need to embrace secularism.

See http://www.secularism.org.uk/news/2015/12/
muslim-reform-movement-embraces-secularism-and-universal-human-rights which
discusses a coalition of Muslim writers, activists and politicians has launched
a "Muslim Reform Movement" rejecting violence and calling for a defence of
secularism, democracy and liberty.

The reformers have issued a Declaration defending gender equality, freedom of
speech and freedom of religion, stating that they are for "secular governance"
and "against political movements in the name of religion."  
[secular]



Posted by Gary Berg-Cross at 12:54 No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Freedom of Religion, Freedom of speech, Gabriel Glazer, gender equality
, Muslim Reform Movement, Muslims, secularism, universal human rights

Friday, January 15, 2016

Religion and the rise and fall of Islamic science

By Mathew Goldstein

One of the questions people have been asking lately is the significance of the
dominance of Islamic civilization during the Middle Ages and its subsequent
decline.  Some people claim that they know the answer.  For example, Reza Aslan
claims that religion is not to be blamed for the decline because it functions
as nothing more than a Rorschach test, so that whatever people claim that they
find in their religion to influence their behavior is actually instead a
reflection of them and not of their religion.  Some people assert that it is an
indisputable fact that any decline can be attributed entirely to rapacious
non-Muslims invaders who militarily conquered and then destroyed Islamic
civilization. This is a factual, and therefore potentially empirically
resolvable, question. We should look to evidence to measure if there was a
decline over time to answer this question.  Then we can align evidence of
decline with contemporaneous events to see if we can uncover the most likely
culprits via consistent chronological correlation.

The question now becomes one of how to measure the rise and fall of Islamic
civilization using available historical data.  Eric Chaney, an Economist at
Harvard University, figured that he may be able to measure the success of
Islamic civilization by counting the number of scientific books published over
time by authors with Muslim names.  Harvard University is famous for the size
of its library which has many books from past centuries.

He identified 21,275 books written by 3,784 authors with Muslim names who died
between the years 250 and 1799.  When there was no death date he substituted
birth date plus 69 years or initial publication date of the author's final book
if there was no birth or death date.  He grouped the statistic into century
intervals.  During the two centuries from 900 to 1100 an average of 12% of the
published books were on scientific subjects and 30% on religious subjects.
 This was followed by a decline in the percentage of books on scientific
subjects.  By 1300 7% of the books cover a science subject and by 1700 it is 2%
while the percentage books on religious subjects rose to 40%.

To better pinpoint the correlation of this decline in scientific output with
other historical events, Chaney divided the results geographically into three
regions: East (Chaney refers to this region as "Iran"), Levant, and West.  The
East region experienced the Mongol invasions, the Levant experienced the
Crusader invasions, the West experienced the invasions of European
colonialists. He found that the decline in publication of science subject books
began in the East and spread from there to the Levant and subsequently to the
West.  The scientific decline in the East began a century before the Mongol
invasion.  The subsequent decline in the Levant and West similarly began
centuries before the Crusader and European colonist conquests.  The Levant
experienced an anomalous increase in publication of science books (as a
percentage of overall book publications) during the Crusader invasions.

In his draft study titled Religion and the Rise and Fall of Islamic Science,
Eric Chaney concludes that the role of Islamic civilization in world affairs
correlates best with the relative dominance of the rationalist versus the
traditionalist strains of Islam.  The Mu`tazila movement was one example of
rationalist Islam. They believed that good and evil were not determined by
revealed scripture or interpretation of scripture, but are rational categories
that could be established through unaided reason.  These rationalist movements
first emerged in the preceding Umayyad Era and reached their height in the 
Abbasid period.  During Islam's "Golden Age" the rulers of the Abbasid
Caliphate forceably favored a rationalist Islam over the competing
traditionalist Islam, they tortured traditionalists. The Abbasid Caliphate
systematically translated every available science text into Arabic (their
motive may have been to equip theologians with knowledge to win debates for the
purpose of converting people to Islam).  After the 10th century the Islamic
rationalist movement declined.

Why did the Islamic rationalist movement lose its influence?  One possible
reason is that they had angered people by being extreme in their intolerance of
Muslims with opposing beliefs and by linking themselves to the brutality of the
rulers.  Another reason was a demographic change.  During the Abbasid period
the population of large parts of the Caliphate were non-Muslim.  Muslims were
initially a minority of citizens overall.  This changed as a result of
conversions to Islam with Muslims becoming the majority first in what is now
Iran and Iraq, later in the Levant, and then in the West.  By the start of the
eleventh century the Abbasid Caliphate had switched sides, outlawing
rationalist Islam as heresy and endorsing traditionalist Islam (by then the
Caliphate was weak and had little temporal power).  The number of madrasas,
which are schools of Islam, increased.  Traditionalist Islam, which emphasizes
the importance of revelation and opposes rationalist Islam, became increasingly
dominant.  The number of authors employed by government declined and the number
employed by madrasas increased.  The relatively more secular state bureaucracy
that pre-dated Islam was replaced by Islamic religious institutions.  

Although a partial dose of rationalism was advantageous for converting
non-Muslims to Islam, a full dose was corrosive towards religious faith,
promoting skepticism, agnosticism, deism, and atheism.  That is why it was
abandoned.  Today rationalist Islam is often deemed heretical by scholars in
mainstream Islamic theology.

Islam itself contained the anti-rationalist seeds that contributed to the
diminished role of Islam in world affairs.  Contrary to what apologists for
Islam say, there is good reason to think that the religion of Islam has been,
and continues to be, its own worst enemy.  No foreign interventions caused this
weakness.  The weakness resulted from rationalism being disfavored when the
influence of Islam increased following a majority of citizens self-identifying
as Muslim.  A diminishment of the negative influence of traditionalist Islam's
anti-rationalism is the way forward.  That is also a good prescription for
everyone, everywhere.  A good place to start is a willingness to abandon
religion altogether.  We need fewer people who fear not being religious
(secularophobia?), including fewer people who fear atheism (atheismophobia?).
Posted by Explicit Atheist at 19:01 No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Wednesday, January 06, 2016

We require evidence, mere argument fails

By Mathew Goldstein

Mr. Deity (Brian Keith Dalton) ably explains in this video (the first in what
he promises will be a series of videos) why we should all reject efforts to
determine the truth or falsity of existence claims, including the existence
claims of theisms, that rely on argument (such as the Kalam argument) instead
of evidence: We require evidence, mere argument fails. Some philosophy, and
especially theology, has a tendency to rely far too much on the unsuccessful
method of logical argument from human intuitions and asserted first principles
(over reliance on first principle correlates with ideology which increases the
probability of error) instead of the successful method of seeking the
frequently non-intuitive best logical fit with the overall available evidence.
Posted by Explicit Atheist at 14:50 1 comment: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest

Friday, January 01, 2016

The 2015 Year in Secular Perspective Blogs

[5206-hope]
by Gary Berg-Cross

2015 was a diverse year with many issues, some ups and more seemingly downward
trends.  In between, as they say there were some learning situations and
perhaps some insights. On this Secular Perspective site we had range of topics
posted which offers its own perspective.  In case you missed it here are some
of the top ones from our volunteer posters. Edd Doerr, president of Americans
for Religious Liberty, provided the first 6 or so on some of his favorite
issues.

[Aborting]
10. Aborting Aristotle  Edd Doerr’s review of a book by  Dave Sterrett had over
200 readers.  He found it an “odd little opus” with an “ anti-abortion screed
extruded by an evangelical publisher and concocted by a youngish Southern
Evangelical Seminary grad who evidently dwells in a rickety Ivory Tower
somewhere in the Twilight Zone beyond Cloud Nine.”
9. Edd Doerr  also had A brief comment on "Zombies of 2016"
Based on Paul Krugman’s column in the April 24 NY Times, that  choped up Chris
Christie, Jeb Bush and other Repubs who would like to infest the White House.

[edddoerr]
8. Edd Doerr also provided a Review of Liberty’s First Crisis: Adams,
Jefferson, and the Misfits Who Saved Free Speech
Freedom of speech, press, assembly and petition, like religious freedom  and
church-state  separation, were/are intended to be protected by the First
Amendment to our Constitution. However, in 1798, less than a decade after the
Bill of Rights was adopted, the Federalist controlled Congress and President
John Adams enacted the Sedition Act, which was immediately used to prosecute/
persecute the slightest printed or spoken utterance that annoyed the Federalist
establishment.

[Vouchermap15-2-2]
7. Edd published several on vouchers including, “The unpopularity of vouchers”
which discussed the DC situation with the Congress and the Obama administration
on the wrong side of the issue.   “Despite the council’s objections, Congress
seems determined to continue D.C. school vouchers”

6. School Choice Works, Privatization Won't noted the importance of knowing
 where the candidates stand on important issues like improving public
education.
[common]


5. Edd’s Common Core Dilemma: Who Owns Our Schools? Had over 300 readings and
give a 5 star rating to a book by Mercedes K. Schneideron the controversial
“Common Core State Standards” system.  The “Core” was largely pushed by
big-money entrepreneurs and so-called “reformers” with little actual connection
to teaching, including such conservative school-voucher-promoting outfits as
the Fordham Institute.

[the-greatest-test-of-courage-on-earth-]
4. I authored the next three mostly popular starting with the seasonal
Channeling  Robert Ingersoll for Thanksgiving which had over 300 views.  It
excerpted Robert Ingersoll’s 1897 , “Thanksgiving Sermon.” Turning from the
divine he instead asked who should be thanked.  He found real groups of people
- scientists, artists, statesmen, mothers, fathers, poets in contrast to
religious organizations and their operatives.. He found plenty of things to be
thankful for starting with the long rise from savagery to civilization.  
  
[troubled]
3. The trouble with Hanukkah? Had over 600 views since it was posted in Dec.
based on a fact finding article on the Jewish Holiday.  The blog’s title is
based on Tom Flynn’s more famous take on that bigger winter holiday in The
Trouble with Christmas.

2. Also seasonally popular (>800 views) was my Sustained Seasonal Symbolic
Struggles noting various symbolic struggles over words and associated values.
 such as Italian parents who were reportedly furious when a school canceled the
"Christmas" concert with a winter recital.
[HawthorneQuote_final]

1.  By far our most popular blog was by Matt Goldstein whose recent Can leftism
be saved from Jeff Sparrow?  Had over 1000 views since published on Dec. 6^th.
Matt notes that the Guardian newspaper’s Jeff Sparrow has been on the attack
against New Atheism for some time. Matt rebuts Jeff’s latest salvo We Can Save
Atheism From the New Atheists which begins with the question "Why are the New
Atheists such jerks?". The provided explanation for the New Atheist's
"dickishness" is "anti-Muslim bigotry" and "paranoid, racist shit". Matt sides
with Chris Hitchens & Sam Harris’ idea that, "All religions are bad but some
religions – especially those in the Middle East, by sheer coincidence! – are
worse than others." 
Matt proposes that “What we really need is to save liberalism from bigoted
regressive leftist dickish know-it-all jerks like Jeff Sparrow.”


     Happy New year all, from one of the editors of Secular Perspectives.
Posted by Gary Berg-Cross at 10:44 No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: 2015, Common Core, Edd Doerr, founders, free speech, Gary Berg-Cross,
Mathew Goldstein, New Atheists, Paul Krugman, Sam Harris, school vouchers, year
in review

Monday, December 28, 2015

The Humanist Part of the Techno Dissent Discussion

[human]
by Gary Berg-Cross

I do like the term and think of myself as a humanist -  secular humanist. And
in the Washington Post recent series on Tech Doubters kicked off by Joel
Achenbach's THE RESISTANCE. I see that there may be an opportunity to get the
humanist position, even the progressive, nature centered
and deliberately rational, progressive secular view into the conversation.  At
least this can be in regard to the human-technical interaction in society.

The article kicks off the issues thus way identifying people uncomfortable with
how the internet and associated technology is influencing modern life.


"They are the digital dissenters.

They see tech companies tracking our every move.

They want to go back to the basics – to a world where the interests of

humans come before robots, algorithms and the needs of Silicon Valley.

 Meet the people on “Team Human."n.” █ 

From a distance I don't much object to this stance.  I don't like the invasion
of privacy with companies (or governments) tracking our behavior etc. And I
share the view of human values being central.  It is just that I
also appreciate science and technology and perhaps want more thought to go into
its use. Some of the critics do too and Achenbach starts introducing them like
this:

[Luddite]
"Techno-skeptics, or whatever you want to call them — “humanists” may be the
best term — sense that human needs are getting lost in the tech frenzy, that
the priorities have been turned upside down. They sense that there’s too much
focus on making sure that new innovations will be good for the machines.

'I’m on Team Human!' author Douglas Rushkoff will say at the conclusion of a
talk."

Well again, I agree with part of these critiques including the judgment that
parts of our digital age has nightmare elements run by digital "robber barons"
who mine data our personal info for profit. So it is not paranoid, that one of
the tech skeptics, political activist Astra Taylor keeps duct tape over the
camera lens on her laptop computer. Someone might be listening.

There are many people who have this view:

"You could fill a college syllabus with books espousing some kind of
technological resistance. Start the class with “You Are Not a Gadget” (Jaron
Lanier), move on to “The Internet Is Not the Answer” (Andrew Keen), and then,
to scare the students silly, “Our Final Invention: Artificial Intelligence and
the End of the Human Era” (James Barrat)."


Also cited is Pope Francis' recent encyclical “On Care for Our Common Home”
which "contemplates the mixed blessings of technology." He acknowledges the
marvels of modern technology such as the beauty of an aircraft or a
skyscraper), but warns of potential dangers,unless technological development
isn't been matched by "development in human values and conscience." There might
be a spiritual ting to Francis' values though.

[Facebook-v-Google]
I might a bit more uncomfortable with the broad brush labeling of
techno-skeptics as humanists. There are some qualifications to make along the
way.  
I would agree with the point that humanism, and in particular a secular
humanist position has potential here. There is something lost in blindly
designing things for machine culture in an arms race, first to the market,
winner take all style that we have. I would feel some affinity to both
‘believe’ in humanism and trust (well hope) in a fair view of technical
innovation;which includes that humans find some meaning in through work (Jörns,
1997). As the article notes we currently have a problem here:

 “The economy accepts every advance in technology with a view to profit,
without concern for its potentially negative impact on human beings."

Yes, and humanist values could be the basis of doing this in a human friendly
way.  The humanist movement, has what Roy Speckhardt calls a forward-thinking
outlook with an emphasis on critical thinking and self-reflection. It also has
a naturalist outlook which wouldn't want an intrusion of spiritual values into
this conversation. So that type of humanism is what we want now.  It is more
sophisticated than a human vs. computer labeled wrestling match. Secularism,
understood as the dominance of naturalistic and scientific thought over
supernatural explanations of reality, was seen as the future for America and
might be seen in light of techno skepticism a solution again. What come along
with a "progressive secularism" view is a belief-stance that human beings are
alone in the world and must act responsibly by forming their ethics solely from
their human experience, human reason and science (source Is Reality Secular?:
Testing the Assumptions of Four Global Worldviews.)

[facebook-007]
To me then is not an either machines/computers or us issue (human reason &
science apply), although I can understand dissent in the face of an un-thought
through tech "advance" imposed by a morals-free system.  Few of us want to be
slippery sloped or bludgeoned into accepting an unacceptable future. The
problem is as much a slow versus fast thinking for-profit style. In a deliberat
e manner we may be able to answer how humans and smart, communicating systems
can usefully interact and profit all human life not just the masters.

It seems to me it also the values of a shallow capitalist culture (the robber
baron image again) allowing tech use for company profit.  It is the old fire is
good or bad depending on how you balance its use within a cultural system. We
need reflection to do this.
Posted by Gary Berg-Cross at 11:52 1 comment: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: Andrew Keen, Astra Taylor, digital dissenters, human-technical
interaction, humanist, internet, Jaron Lanier, Joel Achenbach, rational
skepticism, robots, secular humanism, skepticism, Team Human, techno skeptics

Thursday, December 24, 2015

Why is the Post knuckling under on D.C. vouchers?


[rally]
On Dec 19 the Washington Post ran an editorial titled “Knuckling under on D.C.
vouchers” deploring Congress’s refusal to expand the D.C. school voucher
program. 

Here is a portion
of the original article followed by comments:

"Left by the wayside — despite pleas from D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) and
D.C. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D) — was a five-yearreauthorization of
the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program that allows children from low-income
families to attend private schools with federal vouchers. The program was
created in 2004 as part of a three-pronged investment in D.C. public education
that funds the vouchers and provides extra allocations of federal dollars to
the public school system and public charter schools. Indeed, the three-sector
federal approach has brought more than $600 million to D.C. schools, with
traditional public schools receiving $239 million, public charter schools
$195 million and the voucher program $183 million. The vouchers have allowed
thousands of students, predominantly minorities, to attend private schools.
Parents of scholarship students have extolled the benefits of school choice and
the positive impact of better schooling on their children’s lives. Interest in
the program, according to its administrators, has never been higher."

Responses Here are replies by LaborLawyer and myself.  – Edd Doerr
LaborLawyer 12/19/2015

Given that taxpayer $ is already supporting two K-12 school systems in DC, what
rationale -- other than helping parents send their children to religious
schools -- is there for the voucher program?

Parents who do not like their regular neighborhood school, can apply to regular
out-of-neighborhood schools. Parents who do not like any of the regular
schools, can apply to a wide variety of charter schools. Why do parents need
yet another option? This editorial fails to even attempt to offer an answer to
this obvious question.

Two possible answers -- 1) the WaPo editorial board wants to encourage parents
sending their children to religious schools; and 2) the WaPo editorial board
wants to weaken the DC teachers union. I'd say the answer is almost certainly #
2. The WaPo editorial board has long been irrationally hostile to teachers
unions, public sector unions, and unions in general.

(And no, I'm not a union "mouthpiece"; in 30+ years practicing labor law, I
represented govt and management, never unions or employees. I have, however,
been reading the WaPo editorials for many years and, given my real-world
knowledge regarding the good/bad/ugly of unions, am surprised by the WaPo
editorial board's irrational animosity towards unions -- particularly the
public sector unions which have relatively little economic power and whose
impact is largely limited to providing some protection against arbitrary or
invidious management action.)

Edd Doerr 12/19/2015 1:00 PM EST
Excellent comment. As for the voucher plan forcing all taxpayers to support
pervasively sectarian private schools, it should be clear that this means
violating every taxpayer's right not to be compelled by government to support
religious institutions. James Madison made this point in his 1785 Memorial and
Remonstrance against Religious Assessments, which was the forerunner to the
First Amendment.

Let me cite a Washington Post editorial from March 3, 1971: "Americans have
every right, of course, to seek for their children a religiously oriented
education and to send their children to private schools which provide the sort
of religious orientation they want. But they have no more right to ask the
general public to,pay for such schools -- and for the religious instruction
they provide -- than to ask the general public to pay for the churches in
which, happily, they are free to gather for prayer and for worship as they
please. The religious schools are organs of a church. The public schools are
organs of a secular authority, the state. Would it not ne wiser, as the
Founders of the Republic concluded, to keep church and state altogether
separate?"

The Post ran a similar editorial on June 21, 1969.
 
[13th_Amendment_Commemoration-0c09a]

Edd Doerr (arlinc.org)

EddDoerr
12/19/2015 10:20 AM EST
The DC school voucher plan is paid for by US taxpayers nationwide -- and US
taxpayers have made it clear that they oppose vouchers. The 2015 Gallup
education poll showed opposition at 57% to 31%. State referendums from coast to
coast -- 28 of them from 1966 to 2014 -- have shown that Americans oppose
vouchers and their variants by 2 to 1. In 1981 DC voters defeated a school
voucher plan by 89% to 11%. DC's city council majority opposes vouchers. A
coalition of over 50 national religious, educational, civic and civil rights
organizations told Congress in October that they oppose vouchers. Why on earth
are the Post's editors so keen on vouchers? It makes no sense. Who does not see
that diverting public funds to sectarian and other private schools through
vouchers or tax credits can only fragment our student population along
religious, ideological, social class, ethnic and other lines while undermining
our public schools?
Posted by Gary Berg-Cross at 17:15 No comments: Links to this post ● ●
Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
Labels: DC vouchers, founders, labor lawyer, Memorial and Remonstrance against
Religious Assessments, neighborhood schools, religious schools, unions, WAPO
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)

Subscribe To Blog

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●
Thoughts on contemporary society by secular humanists, atheists, agnostics,
freethinkers, brights and others. WASH is very supportive of the various
Coalition of Reason efforts in our area and elsewhere and authors will be
broadly included from friends and member organizations.

Prospective posts to Secular Perspectives can be emailed to blog@wash.org.
Please include first and last name and the locality within which you reside.
Requests for anonymity will be respected if there is cogent reason to protect a
person's identity. We fully understand that anti-secular bigotry can be
significant in many regions and many particular professions.

●

Search This Blog

Loading...
●

Links

  • Washington Area Secular Humanists
  • Washington DC Coalition of Reason
  • American Humanist Association
  • Center for Inquiry
  • Atheist Alliance International

●

Blog Archive

  • ▼  2016 (6)
      □ ▼  January (6)
          ☆ RELIGIOUS FREEDOM DAY January 16, 2016, the 230th ...
          ☆ Shopping at Walmart is equivalent to drinking wate...
          ☆ Muslim Reform Movement embraces secularism and uni...
          ☆ Religion and the rise and fall of Islamic science
          ☆ We require evidence, mere argument fails
          ☆ The 2015 Year in Secular Perspective Blogs

  • ►  2015 (115)
      □ ►  December (10)
      □ ►  November (13)
      □ ►  October (14)
      □ ►  September (15)
      □ ►  August (14)
      □ ►  July (9)
      □ ►  June (7)
      □ ►  May (15)
      □ ►  April (5)
      □ ►  March (4)
      □ ►  February (4)
      □ ►  January (5)

  • ►  2014 (99)
      □ ►  December (5)
      □ ►  November (8)
      □ ►  October (7)
      □ ►  September (7)
      □ ►  August (15)
      □ ►  July (14)
      □ ►  June (4)
      □ ►  May (2)
      □ ►  April (6)
      □ ►  March (9)
      □ ►  February (11)
      □ ►  January (11)

  • ►  2013 (190)
      □ ►  December (14)
      □ ►  November (14)
      □ ►  October (13)
      □ ►  September (14)
      □ ►  August (17)
      □ ►  July (18)
      □ ►  June (10)
      □ ►  May (15)
      □ ►  April (18)
      □ ►  March (17)
      □ ►  February (19)
      □ ►  January (21)

  • ►  2012 (361)
      □ ►  December (24)
      □ ►  November (17)
      □ ►  October (19)
      □ ►  September (24)
      □ ►  August (37)
      □ ►  July (30)
      □ ►  June (33)
      □ ►  May (46)
      □ ►  April (33)
      □ ►  March (34)
      □ ►  February (33)
      □ ►  January (31)

  • ►  2011 (314)
      □ ►  December (29)
      □ ►  November (24)
      □ ►  October (31)
      □ ►  September (24)
      □ ►  August (32)
      □ ►  July (30)
      □ ►  June (33)
      □ ►  May (29)
      □ ►  April (30)
      □ ►  March (19)
      □ ►  February (25)
      □ ►  January (8)

  • ►  2006 (2)
      □ ►  April (1)
      □ ►  February (1)

  • ►  2005 (50)
      □ ►  December (1)
      □ ►  November (2)
      □ ►  October (1)
      □ ►  September (1)
      □ ►  August (5)
      □ ►  June (4)
      □ ►  May (16)
      □ ►  April (13)
      □ ►  March (5)
      □ ►  February (2)

●

Secular Perspective Posts and Comments are Viewpoints of Those Posting

The views shared on the Secular Perspectives blog are not endorsed by the
Washington Area Secular Humanists or any officers of WASH. WASH provides this
forum as a channel of communication for the secular community but takes no
responsibility for the viewpoints expressed by bloggers or those who leave
comments.

●

Labels

  • . Martin Luther King Jr. (3)
  • #mentalhealth (3)
  • 1% (1)
  • 17th annual Iranian Film Festival (1)
  • 1848 (1)
  • 1948 Arab-Israeli War (1)
  • 1967 Six-Day War (1)
  • 2 state solution (1)
  • 2013 (1)
  • 2014 election (2)
  • 2015 (1)
  • 2nd Great Awakening (1)
  • 350.org (2)
  • 47% (1)
  • 50th anniversery (1)
  • A Brief History of Time (1)
  • A Cross of Thorns (2)
  • A Fit of Pique (1)
  • A Royal Affair (1)
  • A. C. Grayling (2)
  • A.C. Grayling (2)
  • AAAS (3)
  • Abe (1)
  • Abelard (1)
  • abolitionists (1)
  • Abortion (2)
  • Abortion clinic hospital (1)
  • abortions (4)
  • Abraham (2)
  • Abramoff (1)
  • Accidental Universe (1)
  • accommodation (2)
  • accomodationism (1)
  • aclu (5)
  • activism (1)
  • Acts 16 (1)
  • ad hoc rationalization (1)
  • Adam Frank (1)
  • Adam Riess (1)
  • Adam Savage (1)
  • admitting-privileges laws (1)
  • Adolf Eichmann (1)
  • Adrienne Rich (1)
  • advice (1)
  • affection (1)
  • Affirmations (2)
  • Affirmative Stance (1)
  • affirmatory bias (1)
  • affordable care act (1)
  • Afghanistan (1)
  • age-old problems (1)
  • aging (2)
  • Agricultural Appropriations Bill (1)
  • aha (7)
  • AI (1)
  • Air Force (1)
  • Ajit Pai. WaPo (1)
  • Al Green (1)
  • Al Menendez (1)
  • Alaa Ibrahim (1)
  • Alabama women (1)
  • Alan Lightman (1)
  • Alexander Dallas Bache (1)
  • Alexandrian library (2)
  • Alfred E. Smith (1)
  • ALL (1)
  • Allan Powell (2)
  • Allan Sloan (1)
  • Allison Cameron (1)
  • alternet (1)
  • alternet.org (1)
  • Ambrose Bierce (2)
  • amendments (1)
  • Amercan Grace (1)
  • America (1)
  • America-Lite (1)
  • American Civil Liberties Union (1)
  • American classroom (1)
  • American Enterprise Institute (1)
  • American Exceptionalism (13)
  • American Humanist (1)
  • American Humanist Association (1)
  • American Liberty League (1)
  • American Library Association (1)
  • American Lion (1)
  • American Psychological Association (1)
  • American Taliban (1)
  • Americans for Religious Liberty (8)
  • Americans United (1)
  • Americans United for Separation of Church and State (1)
  • Amir D. Aczel‘ (1)
  • Amitai Etzioni (1)
  • AmosTversky (1)
  • Amy M. Rose (1)
  • amygdala (1)
  • Anacostia Playhouse (1)
  • analogy (1)
  • ancient Rome (1)
  • Andrew Jackson (1)
  • Andrew Keen (1)
  • Andy Thomson (1)
  • anger (3)
  • Anglicans (1)
  • animation (1)
  • Anjali Appadurai (1)
  • anniversary (1)
  • Anthony Barnosky (1)
  • Anthony Faiola (1)
  • Anthony Weiner (1)
  • anthropologist (1)
  • anti-bank (1)
  • anti-intellectualism (1)
  • anti-vaccine movement (1)
  • anxiety (2)
  • Apikorsim (2)
  • Appalachian Impacts (1)
  • Aquinas (1)
  • Ara Norenzayan (1)
  • arab spring (1)
  • Archaeology (1)
  • Archaeopteryx (1)
  • Archbishop of Canterbury (1)
  • architecture (1)
  • are Paul VI’s (1)
  • argumentation (1)
  • Aristotle (1)
  • Arizona (1)
  • ARL (1)
  • arlinc.org (2)
  • arlinc.org) (1)
  • Aron Porter (1)
  • arrogance (1)
  • article 9 (1)
  • Arts and Design (1)
  • ASARB (1)
  • Ash Wednesday (1)
  • Ashes to Go (1)
  • assimilation (1)
  • Astra Taylor (1)
  • astrofurfung (1)
  • at-risk kids (1)
  • Atheism (13)
  • Atheism Plus (1)
  • atheist (15)
  • atheist alliance (1)
  • atheist church (1)
  • atheist quotes (1)
  • Atheist Susan (1)
  • atheists (3)
  • athiesm (3)
  • Atlanta Journal-Constitution (1)
  • atomic theory (1)
  • atoms (1)
  • Attack of the Theocrats (1)
  • attention (1)
  • August Sander (1)
  • Auguste Bartholdi (1)
  • Augustine (1)
  • authenticity (1)
  • autism (1)
  • Avraham Shalom (1)
  • Ayaan Hirsi Ali (1)
  • B-1 (1)
  • background checks (1)
  • bailouts (1)
  • Bain Capital (2)
  • Balance Sheet (1)
  • Baltimore (1)
  • Baltimore Coalition of Reason (3)
  • BaltimoreCOR (1)
  • banality of evil (1)
  • Banco Ambrosiano (1)
  • banning abortions (2)
  • Barbara Ehrenreich (1)
  • Barlow (1)
  • Baroque (1)
  • baseball (1)
  • basic values (1)
  • Beat poets (1)
  • becoming what we hate (1)
  • Behavioral Economics (1)
  • Being Both (1)
  • Belgians (1)
  • belief (5)
  • Belief Blog (1)
  • belief in God (2)
  • beliefs (10)
  • Ben Carson (1)
  • Ben Franklin (2)
  • Ben Radford (1)
  • Benjamin Franklin (4)
  • Benjamin Peirce (1)
  • Berlin Wall (2)
  • Bertrand Russell (5)
  • beyond hope (1)
  • bias (2)
  • biases (4)
  • Bible (4)
  • Bible stories (2)
  • Bible-Minded city (1)
  • Biblical commands (1)
  • Bibliography (1)
  • Big Bang (3)
  • Big Brother (2)
  • Big Business (1)
  • Big Gods (1)
  • Big Government (1)
  • bigotry (1)
  • Bill McKibben (3)
  • Bill Moyers (2)
  • Bill Nye (1)
  • Bill O'Reilly (5)
  • Bill of Rights (1)
  • Bill Scher (1)
  • billionaire busybodies (1)
  • Billy Graham (2)
  • Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (1)
  • binary (2)
  • binary thinking (7)
  • bird tracking (1)
  • birth control (4)
  • Bishop Gene Robinson (1)
  • Black Arts Movement (1)
  • Blake Dunlop (1)
  • blank slate (1)
  • blasphemy (7)
  • blind spots (2)
  • blog (2)
  • blogs (1)
  • Bloomberg Business week (1)
  • Bob Ingersoll (4)
  • Bob McDonnell (1)
  • Bobby Jindal (1)
  • Boccaccio (1)
  • bond yields (1)
  • book festivals (1)
  • books (2)
  • Boy Scouts of America (1)
  • boycott of goods produced in Israeli (1)
  • Bracciolini (1)
  • Bracketology (3)
  • Brad Pitt (1)
  • Bradford DeLong (1)
  • brain (1)
  • Breivik (1)
  • Brendan Nyhan (1)
  • Brian Richmond (1)
  • Brian Roewe (1)
  • Brian Schmidt (1)
  • Briana Pobiner (1)
  • Bright-Sided (1)
  • British (1)
  • British Humanist Association (1)
  • British Religion in Numbers (1)
  • Brotherly Love (1)
  • Bruce Gourley (1)
  • Bruce Graham (1)
  • Bruce Springsteen (1)
  • Bruno Manno (1)
  • BSH (1)
  • BSH (WASH) (1)
  • Buddhism (1)
  • Buddhists (1)
  • Budget Deficit (1)
  • buffet (1)
  • Burton Caine (1)
  • Burundi (1)
  • Bush tax cuts (1)
  • butterflys (1)
  • Café Scientifique (1)
  • cairo science cafe (1)
  • California (3)
  • Callimachus (1)
  • camel (1)
  • Campbell (1)
  • can (1)
  • Canada (1)
  • Cannibal Holocaust (1)
  • canonization (1)
  • capitalism (1)
  • carbon dating (1)
  • Carbon-Date Camel Bones (1)
  • Carl Orff (1)
  • Carl Sagan (1)
  • Carly Fiorina (2)
  • Carmi Gillon (1)
  • Carmina Burana (1)
  • Carol A. Kuhnert (1)
  • Caroline Kennedy (1)
  • castrati (1)
  • categories (1)
  • category error (1)
  • Catherine Albanese (1)
  • Catholic Church (7)
  • Catholic Mass (1)
  • Catholics (3)
  • CATO (1)
  • Caught in the Pulpit (1)
  • caution (1)
  • CCSS (1)
  • celebration (1)
  • celebrity (1)
  • Center for American Progress (2)
  • Center for Arizona Policy (1)
  • Center on Education Policy (1)
  • cerebral cortex (1)
  • CFI (9)
  • CGI (1)
  • Chalmers (1)
  • Chamber of Commerce (1)
  • chaplains (1)
  • Charles Blow (1)
  • Charles Bradlaugh (1)
  • Charles Catania (1)
  • Charles Fuller (1)
  • Charles Krauthammer (1)
  • Charles Peirce (2)
  • Charles Sanders Peirce (1)
  • Charles Slack (1)
  • Charles Sumner (1)
  • Charlie Hebdo (1)
  • Charter of Secularism (1)
  • charter schools (6)
  • Chaucer (1)
  • cheney (3)
  • Chester Finn (1)
  • Chick-Fil-A (1)
  • child abuse (3)
  • child evangelism (1)
  • children (1)
  • China (4)
  • cholera (1)
  • Chomksy (1)
  • chopra (1)
  • chosen people (1)
  • Chris Christie (1)
  • Chris Hayes (3)
  • Chris Hayes. (1)
  • Chris Hedges (2)
  • Chris Hitchens (4)
  • Chris Mooney (9)
  • Chris Rodda (1)
  • Chris Stedman (1)
  • Christian Cinema (1)
  • Christian Coalition (1)
  • christian nation (2)
  • Christian Nation Myth (4)
  • Christian privilege (1)
  • Christian Right (1)
  • Christian Scientists (1)
  • Christian terrorist (1)
  • christianity (3)
  • Christianity Losing (1)
  • Christianity without God (1)
  • christians (1)
  • Christmas (2)
  • Christmas concert (1)
  • Christmas tree (1)
  • Christopher and Sarah Lubienski (1)
  • Christopher Hitchens (2)
  • Christopher Stedman open conversation (1)
  • Christy Chiang (1)
  • Chuck Hagel (1)
  • church of the flying spaghetti monster (1)
  • church-state separation (8)
  • church-state separation activist (1)
  • church/state separation (5)
  • Churchandstate.org (1)
  • churches (1)
  • Churchill (1)
  • cicadas (1)
  • Cicero (2)
  • citizens (1)
  • Citizens for Objective Public Education (1)
  • civic humanism. (1)
  • civics (1)
  • civil religions (1)
  • civil rights (1)
  • civil society (2)
  • civilization (1)
  • Civilization and Its Discontents (1)
  • clean energy (2)
  • clergy (1)
  • Clergy Project (1)
  • Clerical (1)
  • climate change (28)
  • climate change deniers (2)
  • climate refugee (2)
  • Cloying book (1)
  • cloying Thanksgiving (1)
  • club for growth (2)
  • CNN (2)
  • coal (2)
  • cognitive bias (7)
  • cognitive overload (2)
  • Cognitive Psychology (4)
  • cognitive science (1)
  • cogntive overload (1)
  • collapse (3)
  • College Survey (1)
  • Colorado Supreme Court (1)
  • Columbia Journalism Review (1)
  • Columbus (1)
  • comfort (2)
  • Common Core (2)
  • Common Dreams (1)
  • common good (1)
  • Common Sense (2)
  • commons (1)
  • communists (2)
  • communitarianism (1)
  • Community (2)
  • compassion (1)
  • Compatibilism (1)
  • compatibility (1)
  • competition (1)
  • compexity (1)
  • complex growth (1)
  • complex issues (1)
  • complexity (1)
  • conception (1)
  • concepts (1)
  • concern trolling (1)
  • Condorcet (1)
  • Conervatives (1)
  • Conference of Parties (1)
  • confidential memo (1)
  • confirmatory bias (6)
  • confrontational approaches (1)
  • Confusius (1)
  • Conjunction tehttp://www.blogger.com/img/blank.gifst (1)
  • Connecticut Yankee (1)
  • consciousness (2)
  • Conservapedia (1)
  • conservation (1)
  • conservative Christians (2)
  • conservative ideologues (1)
  • Conservative Political Action Committee (1)
  • conservative quotes (2)
  • conservatives (7)
  • Constitution (6)
  • Constitution of Ireland (1)
  • constitutional principles (1)
  • consumption (1)
  • Contemporary American Theatre (1)
  • contraception (4)
  • contradictions (1)
  • Contras (1)
  • conversations (1)
  • conversions (1)
  • Cooperation (2)
  • Coors (1)
  • COP17 (1)
  • coping (1)
  • coral reef (1)
  • Corliss Lamont (2)
  • corporate lies (1)
  • corporations (1)
  • Corporatism (1)
  • cosmology (1)
  • cosmopolitanism (1)
  • cosmos (3)
  • Council for Secular Humanism (1)
  • Council of Chief State School Officers (1)
  • County Clerk (1)
  • courage (1)
  • Courtland Milloy (1)
  • courtly love (1)
  • CPAC (2)
  • CPNAS (1)
  • Creationism (5)
  • CREDO study (1)
  • creed (1)
  • Crises (1)
  • critic (1)
  • critical thinking (29)
  • crony capitalism (1)
  • Crossing Brooklyn Ferry (1)
  • crowd sourcing (1)
  • crusades (1)
  • cults (4)
  • cultural events (1)
  • culture (4)
  • culture wars (5)
  • curiosity (1)
  • D.C. Art Science Evening Rendezvous (1)
  • D.C. Council (1)
  • Da Vinci Code (1)
  • DADT (1)
  • Dan Arel (1)
  • Dan Ariely (2)
  • Dan Cathy (1)
  • Dana Millbank (1)
  • Danbury Church (1)
  • Daniel C. Maguire (1)
  • Daniel Dennett (4)
  • dark energy (1)
  • Darwin (7)
  • Darwin Day (4)
  • Darwin Day 2013 (1)
  • Darwin Economy (1)
  • Darwinism (2)
  • DASER (1)
  • David Barton (3)
  • David Berliner (1)
  • David Bintley (1)
  • David Cameron (1)
  • David E. Thomas (1)
  • David Gelernter (1)
  • David Hume (2)
  • David Ignatius (1)
  • David Niose (1)
  • David Noise (1)
  • David Pears (1)
  • David Ropeik (2)
  • David Silverman (1)
  • Dawkins (4)
  • day of prayer (1)
  • DC (8)
  • DC Region Atheists (1)
  • DC vouchers (2)
  • de Tocqueville (1)
  • de Waal (1)
  • Dean Baker (1)
  • Death of a Naturalist (1)
  • death panels (1)
  • debate (3)
  • debates (1)
  • debating evolution (1)
  • debt (1)
  • debt ceiling (1)
  • deception (1)
  • Decision Points (1)
  • decline (1)
  • Deist (1)
  • delayed gratification (1)
  • delusions (2)
  • demagogue (1)
  • democracy (6)
  • Democracy in America (2)
  • Democracy Now (1)
  • Democratic Communitarianism (1)
  • democratic liberties (1)
  • Democrats (1)
  • denial (1)
  • deniers (1)
  • Denmark (1)
  • Dennett (4)
  • Denver Post (1)
  • depression (2)
  • depression era (1)
  • despair (1)
  • determinism (2)
  • Detropia (1)
  • Dewey (2)
  • dialog (1)
  • Dialogue of a Philosopher with a Jew and a Christian (1)
  • Diane Ravitch (2)
  • dichotomy (2)
  • Dickens (1)
  • Diderot (1)
  • differentiation (1)
  • diffusion (1)
  • digital dissenters (1)
  • dinosaurs (1)
  • diplomacy (1)
  • discrete emotion theory (1)
  • Disgust (1)
  • Disneyland (1)
  • Disruptive students (1)
  • distractions (2)
  • diversity (1)
  • divorce lawyers (1)
  • Do the Math Tour (1)
  • Dogmas (1)
  • DOMA (2)
  • Dominican Republic (1)
  • Dominionism (3)
  • Don Lemon (1)
  • Don Wharton (1)
  • Donald Sterling (1)
  • Donald Trump (1)
  • double miracle (1)
  • Downton Abbery (1)
  • Dr Ben Carson (1)
  • Dr. Russell Humphreys (1)
  • draft dodgers (1)
  • Dresden New York (1)
  • drones (1)
  • Dror Moreh (1)
  • Drudge Report (1)
  • dsm (2)
  • Durban (1)
  • Durbin (1)
  • E. O. Wilson (1)
  • E.O. Wilson (2)
  • Earth (1)
  • Earth 2100 (2)
  • Earth day (6)
  • earth hour (3)
  • Easter island (1)
  • ebook (1)
  • EchoLight (1)
  • ecology (2)
  • economic policy (3)
  • Economic Policy Institute (1)
  • economics (2)
  • economy (1)
  • Edd Doerr (60)
  • education (1)
  • Edward Ericson (1)
  • Edwina Rogers (1)
  • EFF (1)
  • Egypt (3)
  • Egyptian Constitution (1)
  • Einstein (1)
  • EJ. Dionne (1)
  • election (2)
  • election administration (1)
  • election monitoring (1)
  • elections (2)
  • Elias Castillo (1)
  • Eliot Weinberger (1)
  • Elizabeth Cornwell (1)
  • Elizabeth Warren (1)
  • Elmira (1)
  • Elmira College (1)
  • Emanuel Derman (1)
  • Emile Durkheim (1)
  • emotions (2)
  • empathy (1)
  • Empiricism (6)
  • Encyclopédie (1)
  • End Days (1)
  • end of religion (3)
  • enemployment (1)
  • engineering (2)
  • Englightenment (3)
  • enhanced interrogation (1)
  • Enlightenment (7)
  • Enron (1)
  • entrepreneurship (1)
  • Environment (2)
  • environmental evacuees (1)
  • Environmental Film Festival (1)
  • Epicurus (3)
  • Episcopal saint of the year (1)
  • epistemology (1)
  • equality (1)
  • Erasmus Prize (1)
  • Erasmus Rabelais (1)
  • Eric Cantor (1)
  • Eric Hoffer (1)
  • Eric Wilson (1)
  • Erik Kristopher Myers (1)
  • Ernst Mayr (1)
  • essays (1)
  • essence (1)
  • establishment clause (1)
  • esteem (1)
  • Ethical Culture movement (1)
  • ethical values (3)
  • ethics (6)
  • ethnicity (2)
  • Eupraxsophy (2)
  • European settlers (1)
  • evangelicals (4)
  • Eve Ensler (1)
  • EventBrite (1)
  • evidence (9)
  • evil. prayer (1)
  • Evo Morales (1)
  • evolution (18)
  • evolution of religion (2)
  • Evolutionary Psychology (2)
  • Existence of God (1)
  • exit polls (1)
  • exorcism (1)
  • Exorcist boot camp (1)
  • expelled (1)
  • Explicit Atheist (1)
  • extremists (1)
  • Ezra Klein (1)
  • Facebook (1)
  • fact checking (1)
  • facts (3)
  • fads and fallacies (1)
  • fairness (2)
  • faith (7)
  • Faith and Freedom Coalition (1)
  • faith-based education (3)
  • fallibilism (1)
  • Falling Behind (1)
  • Falling Behind. middle class (1)
  • false dichotomy (1)
  • family planning (2)
  • farm bill (1)
  • farmer (1)
  • fascism (1)
  • Fast and Slow (1)
  • FDR (4)
  • Fear (2)
  • Federal Reserve (1)
  • feminism (2)
  • Ferguson (1)
  • fetal personhood (1)
  • filibuster (1)
  • film (2)
  • film festivals (2)
  • Filmfest DC (1)
  • filter bubbles (2)
  • financial meltdown (4)
  • First Amendment (3)
  • First American (1)
  • fiscal slope (1)
  • fisheries (1)
  • Flagship project (1)
  • Flammarion engraving (1)
  • flat earth (1)
  • flexible thinking (1)
  • flexons (1)
  • floatingsheep (1)
  • Flow (1)
  • flying spaghetti monster (4)
  • folk songs (1)
  • folklife festival (1)
  • Ford (1)
  • forest of life (1)
  • forgiveness (1)
  • formation of the continents (1)
  • forward on climate (1)
  • foundations (1)
  • founders (9)
  • Fox (1)
  • Fox News (7)
  • frames (4)
  • France (1)
  • Frances Perkins (2)
  • Francis Galton (1)
  • Frank Bascombe (1)
  • Frank Bruni op ed (1)
  • Frank Lloyd Wright (1)
  • Franklin Graham (1)
  • Fred Edwords (4)
  • Fred Hirsch (1)
  • Frederick Douglas (1)
  • Fredericksburg Coalition of Reason (1)
  • Free Enterprise (1)
  • Free Inquiry (4)
  • free markets (1)
  • Free Officers Movement (1)
  • free speech (1)
  • free thinkers (4)
  • free will (3)
  • freedom (5)
  • freedom from religion (3)
  • freedom of expression (1)
  • Freedom of Religion (2)
  • Freedom of speech (2)
  • freedom of the press (1)
  • Freedom of Thought Report (1)
  • Freedom Plaza (1)
  • Freedom. tolerance (1)
  • freemasons (1)
  • Freer and Sackler Galleries (1)
  • freethinker (3)
  • freethinkers (3)
  • freethought (2)
  • Freethought Trail (2)
  • French Revolution (2)
  • FRESH (1)
  • Freud (1)
  • Friedman (1)
  • Friendly Atheist (1)
  • FSM (1)
  • fundamentalism (3)
  • Futurist (1)
  • G8 (1)
  • Gabriel Glazer (1)
  • Gain (1)
  • Gaithersburg Book Festival (1)
  • galaxy (1)
  • Gallup education poll (1)
  • Gallup poll (4)
  • Gamal Abdel Nasser (1)
  • Gang of Six (1)
  • Gangster Squad (1)
  • gaps (1)
  • Gary Berg-Cross (2)
  • gay bashing (1)
  • Gay Marriage (4)
  • gay rights (2)
  • Gay sex (1)
  • Gaza (4)
  • GDP (2)
  • gender equality (1)
  • generalizations (1)
  • genes (1)
  • Genesis (2)
  • genetically modified food (1)
  • genetics (2)
  • genocide (1)
  • George Allen (1)
  • George Bernard Shaw (2)
  • George Carlin (2)
  • George Clooney (1)
  • George Orwell (1)
  • George Porter (2)
  • George W. Bush (4)
  • George W. Bush. ghost writter (1)
  • george washington (3)
  • Gerald Posner's (1)
  • Germans (1)
  • Gertrude Appleman (1)
  • ghosts (1)
  • Gingrich (2)
  • Glenn Beck (1)
  • global challenges (1)
  • Global Revolution (1)
  • global warming (3)
  • glory (1)
  • GLTB (1)
  • GM (1)
  • Gnu Atheism (1)
  • God Believes in Love (1)
  • God Delusion (1)
  • god is great (1)
  • God is imaginary (1)
  • god meme (1)
  • God Mocks (1)
  • god particle (1)
  • God-given rights (1)
  • God's Bankers (1)
  • God’s Grandeur (1)
  • Goddard (1)
  • Godfrey Hodgson (1)
  • Godless environments (1)
  • Goggle (1)
  • Golden Age (1)
  • Golden Rule (1)
  • golf (1)
  • Good News Club (1)
  • Good Wife (1)
  • Google (1)
  • GOP (1)
  • Gopnik (1)
  • government is the problem (1)
  • Government shutdown (1)
  • government spending (1)
  • Grand Challenges (2)
  • grandchildren (2)
  • grandkids (1)
  • gratification (1)
  • gratitude (2)
  • gravity (1)
  • gravity waves (1)
  • Grayling (1)
  • Great Attractor (1)
  • Greece (2)
  • Greek culture (1)
  • green economy (1)
  • green house gases (1)
  • green lantern (1)
  • Greenland (1)
  • Greg Epstein (1)
  • Greg Paul (2)
  • Gregg Caruso (1)
  • Gregory Corso (1)
  • Gregory Orfalea (1)
  • Greta Christian (1)
  • Greta Christina (2)
  • Gretta Vosper (1)
  • gridlock (2)
  • Ground Zero Mosque (1)
  • group cohesion (1)
  • group cohesiveness (1)
  • growth (1)
  • Guardian (1)
  • gun security (1)
  • gun violence (1)
  • guns (1)
  • Guns of August (1)
  • Guth (1)
  • GWU (1)
  • gyChurch’s Sins (1)
  • H.G. Wells (1)
  • Haaretz. Rolling Stone (1)
  • Habermas (1)
  • hacks (1)
  • Haiti (1)
  • half truths (2)
  • Hannah Arendt (1)
  • Hanukkah (1)
  • Happiness (3)
  • Happy Earth Day (1)
  • hard problems (1)
  • Harm from Religion (3)
  • Harrison Murphy (1)
  • Harvey Cox (1)
  • Hate (1)
  • Hatred (1)
  • hawking (1)
  • Health and Science (1)
  • Hebrew Bible (1)
  • Hebrews (1)
  • Heliopause (1)
  • Hellen Keller (1)
  • Hellenic world (1)
  • Heloise (1)
  • Henry Clay (1)
  • Henry VIII (1)
  • Henry Ward Beecher (1)
  • heretic (1)
  • Herman Daily (1)
  • heroes (1)
  • Hertsgaard (1)
  • hierarchy of needs (1)
  • hierophany (1)
  • Higgs boson (1)
  • Hightower Lowdown (1)
  • hijab (1)
  • hijackers (1)
  • Hippocratic Oath (1)
  • Hiroshima (1)
  • His Noodliness (1)
  • History (4)
  • Hobby Lobby (3)
  • Holden Caulfield (1)
  • holiday tree (1)
  • holy terror (1)
  • Homeland Security (1)
  • homophobia (1)
  • Hope (3)
  • horizontal gene transfer (1)
  • hostages (1)
  • hot (2)
  • hot generation (1)
  • House (1)
  • House Judiciary Committee (1)
  • housing (1)
  • Houston Oasis (1)
  • Hubble parameter (1)
  • Huck Finn (1)
  • Huckleberry Finn (1)
  • hucksters (1)
  • Hugh Taft-Morales (1)
  • Hull House (1)
  • human beings (1)
  • human condition (1)
  • Human Mind (1)
  • human origins (2)
  • human overpopulation (1)
  • human rights (4)
  • human values (3)
  • human-technical interaction (1)
  • Humanae Vitae encyclical (2)
  • humanism (7)
  • humanism is great (1)
  • humanist (12)
  • Humanist Charities (1)
  • Humanist Declaration (2)
  • Humanist Manifesto II (4)
  • Humanist Movement (1)
  • Humanist organizations (2)
  • humanist poet (1)
  • humanists (2)
  • Humanitarian (1)
  • Humanitarian Efforts (1)
  • humanities (1)
  • humanity (2)
  • HumanLight (6)
  • HumanLight 2012 (1)
  • hunger (1)
  • Hurricane Sandy (2)
  • Hutu (1)
  • hydrogen (1)
  • hypatia (1)
  • hyperskepticism (1)
  • hyphenated american (1)
  • Hypocrisy (1)
  • hysteria (1)
  • icebergs (1)
  • ideology (2)
  • idrewthis (1)
  • Ignorance (2)
  • Illinois Family Institute (1)
  • images (1)
  • Imagine (1)
  • immigrant issues (2)
  • immigration (3)
  • Imperialism (2)
  • imports (1)
  • IMT (1)
  • Inconvenient truths (1)
  • Indiana University (1)
  • Indians (2)
  • induction (1)
  • Industrial Revolution (1)
  • inequality (1)
  • infection (1)
  • inflationary theory (1)
  • infographics (1)
  • information overload (2)
  • informed citizens (1)
  • infrastructure (1)
  • Ingersoll (1)
  • Ingersoll Oratory Contest (1)
  • innate (1)
  • Institute for the Study of Secularism in Society and Culture (1)
  • integrity (1)
  • intellectual arrogance (1)
  • intellectuals (1)
  • intelligence (2)
  • Intelligent design (2)
  • intentions (2)
  • Inter-faith (1)
  • interaction (1)
  • Interfaith (2)
  • International Humanist & Ethical Union (1)
  • International Humanist and Ethical Union (1)
  • international secularism (2)
  • internet (1)
  • internet access (1)
  • intractable problems (1)
  • Intuition (1)
  • Intuition Pumps (1)
  • IPSEC (1)
  • Iran (2)
  • Iraq (2)
  • Ireland (3)
  • irrational belief (4)
  • irrationality (1)
  • Isaac Asimov (2)
  • ISHV (2)
  • ISIS (1)
  • Islam (8)
  • Islamization (1)
  • isotherm (1)
  • Israel (5)
  • Its Our Economy (2)
  • J. Anderson Thomson (1)
  • Jack Abramoff (1)
  • Jack Markell (1)
  • Jack Reacher (1)
  • Jack Ruhl (2)
  • Jackson Browne (1)
  • Jacoby (2)
  • James (1)
  • James A. Haught (1)
  • James Baker (1)
  • James Haught (1)
  • James Madison (3)
  • James March (1)
  • James W. Loewen (1)
  • Jamila Bey (1)
  • Jane Abraham. (1)
  • Jane Addams (2)
  • Japan (1)
  • Jared Diamond (2)
  • Jaron Lanier (1)
  • Jason D. Heap. Andy Thomson (1)
  • Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1)
  • Jeb Bush (4)
  • Jeff Sharlet (2)
  • Jefferson (1)
  • Jefferson Bible (4)
  • Jefferson building (2)
  • Jefferson lecture (1)
  • Jen McCreight (2)
  • Jennifer Bleyer (1)
  • Jeremy Dean (1)
  • Jerry Bruckheimer (1)
  • Jerry Faldwell (1)
  • Jesse Galef (1)
  • Jesus (1)
  • Jewish (2)
  • Jews (3)
  • JFK (1)
  • Jillian Keenan (1)
  • Jim Giradi (1)
  • Jim Hightower (1)
  • Jo Renee Formicola (1)
  • Joan Miró (1)
  • Joan Rivers (1)
  • Job (1)
  • jobs (2)
  • Joel Klein (1)
  • Joel Achenbach (1)
  • Johann Friedrich Struensee (1)
  • John Adams (1)
  • John Boehner (1)
  • John Boehner. conservatives (1)
  • John Brown (1)
  • John Carlin (1)
  • John Davidson (1)
  • John Dewey (6)
  • John Hope Franklin (1)
  • John Jay College (1)
  • John Kerry (1)
  • John Lennon (1)
  • John Locke (1)
  • John Paul (1)
  • John Rafferty (1)
  • John Sexton (1)
  • John Shook (4)
  • John Sowa (1)
  • John Stuart Mill (1)
  • Jon Meacham (1)
  • jon Stewart (1)
  • Jonathan Capehart (1)
  • Jonathan Haidt (1)
  • Joseph L. Price (1)
  • Joseph Tainter (1)
  • Joshua Hesche (1)
  • Joshua Lewis (1)
  • journalism (1)
  • Journey to the Sun (1)
  • Joy Reid (1)
  • Joyful exuberance (2)
  • Juan Bosch (1)
  • Judas Iscariote (1)
  • Judeo-Christian values (2)
  • Julian Huxley (1)
  • Julien Musolino (3)
  • juniper berries (1)
  • Junipero Serra (2)
  • Junipero Serra Unitarian minister (1)
  • justice (2)
  • Justice Anthony Kennedy (1)
  • Kagan (1)
  • Kahneman (3)
  • Kansas (1)
  • Karen Handel (1)
  • Karl Popper (2)
  • Katie O’Hagan (1)
  • Katrina (1)
  • Kenneth Silber (1)
  • Kenya (1)
  • Kevin Zeese (4)
  • Keynes (1)
  • Keystone XL pipeline (1)
  • kidnapping (1)
  • Kieran Tapsell (2)
  • Kim Davis (2)
  • Kindness (3)
  • Knights Templar (1)
  • knowing (1)
  • Knoxville (1)
  • Koch (1)
  • Koch Brothers (2)
  • Kofi Annan (1)
  • Komen (1)
  • koonin (1)
  • Kurzweil (1)
  • labels (1)
  • labor (1)
  • labor lawyer (1)
  • Ladder of Escape (1)
  • laïcité (1)
  • Lakoff (3)
  • Lancet (1)
  • language (2)
  • language-based charter schools (1)
  • Larry Niven (1)
  • last supper (1)
  • Latino vote (1)
  • Laurence Krauss James Rand (1)
  • Lawmakers in Nevada (2)
  • Lawrence Krauss (1)
  • Lawrence O’Donnell (1)
  • laws (1)
  • leaders (1)
  • Leah Mickens (1)
  • Leaves of Grass (1)
  • Lebanon (1)
  • Legion of Christ (1)
  • Lehigh Valley HumanLight Celebration (1)
  • Leo Koch (1)
  • lesbian issues (1)
  • Lester Brown (2)
  • Levack (1)
  • Leviticus (1)
  • Lewis Carroll (1)
  • LexisNexis Academic (1)
  • LGBT (1)
  • Liars for Jesus (1)
  • liberal christians (1)
  • Liberal Churches (1)
  • liberal nationalists (1)
  • LiberalOasis.com (1)
  • liberals (3)
  • Liberation Theology (2)
  • libertarian (1)
  • Libertas (1)
  • Libet (1)
  • libraries (2)
  • library of congress (3)
  • lies (2)
  • life (1)
  • life extension (1)
  • limits of science (1)
  • limits to growth (2)
  • Lincoln (2)
  • Linda LaScola (2)
  • Literature (1)
  • Liu Xiaobo (1)
  • lobbying (2)
  • lobbyist (1)
  • local economies (1)
  • logic (3)
  • logic of chance (1)
  • Lois Porter (1)
  • London Review of Books (1)
  • Loring Abeyta (1)
  • Losing Our Religion (1)
  • Louis Agassiz (1)
  • Louis Brandeis (1)
  • Louis Powell (2)
  • Love (2)
  • Love Thy Neighbor (1)
  • low information voters (1)
  • loyalty (2)
  • Lucretius (1)
  • Luis Granados (2)
  • Lukas Novy (1)
  • Lutheran Church (1)
  • Lybia (1)
  • Lynchburg (1)
  • Lyndon Johnson (1)
  • Lynn Vavreck (1)
  • MacArthur Awards (1)
  • Maccabees (1)
  • Madison WI (1)
  • Mafia (5)
  • Maggie Ardiente (1)
  • Magic (1)
  • Magic of Reality (3)
  • Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (1)
  • Mani Haqiqi (1)
  • manipulation of history (1)
  • mankind (1)
  • Manuel Azaña (1)
  • manufacturing (1)
  • Mapping the Universe: Space. Time. Discovery! (1)
  • Marbles: The Brain Store (1)
  • Marc Kaufman (1)
  • march madness (1)
  • March on Washington (1)
  • Marcinkus (2)
  • Margaret Downey (2)
  • Margaret Flowers (4)
  • Margaret Sanger (1)
  • Margarethe von Trotta's (1)
  • Marin Gardner (1)
  • Mark Osler (1)
  • Mark Sanford (1)
  • Mark Twain (9)
  • Mark Twain Exhibit (1)
  • market forces (1)
  • marketing (1)
  • markets (1)
  • Marquette University (1)
  • marriage equality (1)
  • Martha C. Nussbaum (1)
  • Martin Brahms (1)
  • Martin Heidegger (1)
  • Martin Luther King Day (1)
  • Martin Luther King Jr. (2)
  • Martin Seligman (1)
  • Mary Gail Frawley-O’Dea (1)
  • Mary Johnson (1)
  • Mary McCarthy (1)
  • Maryland (1)
  • Maslow (1)
  • Masonic Trowel (1)
  • mass extinctions (1)
  • materialism (1)
  • Mathew Fox (1)
  • Mathew Goldstein (2)
  • Matilda Joslyn Gage Foundation (1)
  • measles (1)
  • Meat Inspectors (1)
  • media (1)
  • media toadies (1)
  • Meditation (2)
  • meme war (1)
  • memes (9)
  • Memorial and Remonstrance against Religious Assessments (1)
  • mental illness (1)
  • Mental Virus (1)
  • Mercedes Schneider (1)
  • Mercedes Schneider (2)
  • mercury in food (1)
  • mercy (1)
  • mes (1)
  • messaging (1)
  • Messianic (1)
  • Messianic Jewish Bible Institute (1)
  • metaphors (1)
  • metaphysics (1)
  • mexico (1)
  • Micahel http://www.blogger.com/img/blank.gifHudson (1)
  • Michael Alison Chandler (1)
  • Michael Gerson (1)
  • Michael Moore (1)
  • Michael Nugent (1)
  • Michael Ruse (1)
  • Michael Shermer (1)
  • Michelle Rhee (1)
  • Mickey Cohen (1)
  • Middle Ages (1)
  • middle class (1)
  • migration (2)
  • Mike Aus (1)
  • Mike Huckabee (1)
  • Milankovitch cycles (1)
  • militarism (3)
  • Military (1)
  • Military Religious Freedom Foundation (1)
  • Millennial generation (1)
  • Milton Friedman (3)
  • mimesis (1)
  • mind-body dualism. Psychology (2)
  • mindfulness (1)
  • minimum wage (1)
  • Ministry of Interior (1)
  • miracles (4)
  • Mircea Eliade (1)
  • Misinformation (2)
  • misleading words (1)
  • Misogyny (5)
  • misquotes (1)
  • missions (1)
  • Mitch Daniels (1)
  • Mitt Romney (6)
  • Mitt Romney. Frank Lasee (1)
  • Mizoguchi (1)
  • mlk (5)
  • moderate religions (1)
  • modern dance (1)
  • modern Humanism (1)
  • modest proposals (1)
  • Modest Reception (1)
  • monarchy (1)
  • money laundering (2)
  • monks (1)
  • Monsanto (1)
  • Monument (1)
  • moral babies (1)
  • moral equivalent of war (1)
  • Moral Majority (1)
  • Moral Narrative (1)
  • moral politics (1)
  • morality (9)
  • morals (1)
  • mormonism (2)
  • mormons (1)
  • Morning Edition (2)
  • Mother Nature News (1)
  • motivation (1)
  • movements (1)
  • movies (1)
  • Moyers and Company (1)
  • MSNBC (2)
  • multiculturalism (1)
  • multiverse (1)
  • murder (2)
  • Murdock (2)
  • museums (1)
  • Muslim Brotherhood (1)
  • Muslim Reform Movement (1)
  • Muslims (5)
  • mystery (1)
  • Myths (8)
  • NAC (1)
  • naked public square (1)
  • Nancy Pelosi (1)
  • Naomi Klein (2)
  • narratives (2)
  • NASA (1)
  • Nate Silver (1)
  • Nathan Bupp (2)
  • Nathan Bupp Eupraxsophy (1)
  • National Academy (1)
  • national Academy of Scieces (1)
  • National Academy of Sciences (1)
  • National Assembly (1)
  • National Book Festival (1)
  • National Catholic Reporter (3)
  • National Day of Prayer (2)
  • National Defense Authorization Bill (1)
  • National Endowment for the Arts (1)
  • National Gallery (1)
  • National Governors Association (1)
  • National Portrait Gallery (1)
  • National Prayer Breakfast (1)
  • National Review (1)
  • National Security (1)
  • Native Americans (1)
  • Nature (5)
  • naure vs. nurture (1)
  • Nazism (1)
  • NBA draft (1)
  • NCR (5)
  • neighborhood schools (1)
  • Nelson Georgia (1)
  • Nelson Mandela (1)
  • Nelson Mandela Day (1)
  • neoconservative (2)
  • Network (1)
  • neuroscience (2)
  • Nevada (2)
  • New Atheists (10)
  • New Canadians (1)
  • New Deal (1)
  • New Enlightenment (1)
  • New Statesman (1)
  • New Years (2)
  • New York Daily News (1)
  • new york times (4)
  • news (4)
  • news analysis (1)
  • News Media (1)
  • Newtown (1)
  • Newtown shootings (1)
  • Next Generation Science Standards (1)
  • Niall Ferguson (1)
  • Niko Alm (1)
  • Nili Philipp (1)
  • nim (1)
  • Nixon (2)
  • no growth (1)
  • Noah (1)
  • Noam Chomsky (5)
  • Noam Scheiber (1)
  • Nobel Peace Prize (1)
  • nobel prize (2)
  • Nollywood (1)
  • non-believers (9)
  • Nones (13)
  • nonreligious (3)
  • nontheistic Americans (1)
  • Norman Borlaug (1)
  • North Carolina (1)
  • North of Boulevard (1)
  • Norway (3)
  • Norwegian Humanist Association (1)
  • novels (1)
  • NPR (1)
  • NRC (1)
  • NSF (2)
  • nuclear power (1)
  • Nuetral Monism (1)
  • nugent (1)
  • nurture (1)
  • NY Times (1)
  • O Fortuna (1)
  • Obama (8)
  • Obamacare (2)
  • objective (1)
  • objectivity (1)
  • Occam's razor (1)
  • Occam’s Razor (1)
  • occupations (1)
  • occupy dc (2)
  • occupy wall street (7)
  • OccupyDC (1)
  • Occuy Wall Street (1)
  • ocs (1)
  • october2011 (1)
  • offensive provisions (1)
  • oil companies (1)
  • old Regimes (1)
  • old testament (1)
  • oligarchy (2)
  • Oliver Scharbrodt (1)
  • Olivia Langdon (1)
  • one percent doctrine (1)
  • ontolog (1)
  • Ontologist (1)
  • ontology (1)
  • Opinion Research (1)
  • opposition research (1)
  • optimism (1)
  • Opus Dei (3)
  • oratory contest (1)
  • organic food (1)
  • Orhan Pamuk (1)
  • Origin of the Specties (1)
  • Original Blessing (1)
  • Originalism (1)
  • Orwellian (1)
  • Ory Okolloh (1)
  • Oscar (1)
  • Oslo (1)
  • Ottoman Empire (1)
  • Ottomans (1)
  • Our Task (1)
  • Out Task (1)
  • Outline of History (2)
  • outrageous solutions (1)
  • overpopulation (4)
  • Owen Flanagan (1)
  • owners (1)
  • OWS (8)
  • oxymorons (1)
  • P. J. Murphy (1)
  • Pacifica (1)
  • paine (1)
  • Palestine (3)
  • Palestinians (2)
  • Palinization (1)
  • Pamela Geller (1)
  • panpsychism (1)
  • pantheism (1)
  • paradox (1)
  • paranoia (1)
  • Paris (1)
  • Pariser (1)
  • Parliament (1)
  • Parti Quebecois (1)
  • Pascal's wager (1)
  • Pastafarian (1)
  • Pat Buchanan (1)
  • Pat Hayes (1)
  • Pat Robertson (2)
  • Patrick Henry (1)
  • Patrick Murphy (1)
  • Paul Bloom (1)
  • Paul Krugman (2)
  • Paul Kurtz (14)
  • Paul McHugh (1)
  • Paul Rozin (1)
  • Paul Ryan (1)
  • Paul Wlmott (1)
  • Pauline Marois (1)
  • PBS (1)
  • peace (5)
  • Peace Ball (1)
  • peace corps (1)
  • peak oil (1)
  • Peirce (3)
  • pelvic zone orthodoxy (1)
  • Pentagonism (1)
  • Perfect Crisis (1)
  • Perry King (1)
  • personal knowledge (1)
  • personhood (3)
  • Perspectives of Psychiatry (1)
  • Peter Bergen (1)
  • Peter King (1)
  • Pew Forum poll (2)
  • Philip Appleman (1)
  • Phillip Slavney (1)
  • philosopher (3)
  • philosophical naturalism (1)
  • phlogiston (1)
  • phobia (1)
  • Phyllis Tickle (1)
  • physics (2)
  • Piaget (1)
  • picnic (1)
  • Pilgrims (3)
  • Pinakes (1)
  • Pinochet (1)
  • Places & Spaces Mapping Science (1)
  • plague (1)
  • Plan B (2)
  • Planed Parenthood (1)
  • Planet in a Pebble (1)
  • Planetarium (1)
  • Planetary Vision (1)
  • planned parenthood (3)
  • play (1)
  • plays (1)
  • PLO (1)
  • pluralism (1)
  • plutocrats (1)
  • poem (1)
  • poems (1)
  • Poet (2)
  • poetry (3)
  • Point of Inquiry (2)
  • police (2)
  • police state (1)
  • political candidates (1)
  • political choice (1)
  • Political Parties (1)
  • political pragmatism (2)
  • political slogans (1)
  • politics (22)
  • Polling (1)
  • polls (1)
  • poor kids (1)
  • pope (2)
  • Pope Alexander VI (1)
  • Pope Benedict XVI (1)
  • Pope Francis (7)
  • Pope Francis I (1)
  • Population Connection (1)
  • Population policy (1)
  • Portland (1)
  • Portrait Competition (1)
  • positional goods (1)
  • Positive Thinking (1)
  • positive thrust (1)
  • possession (1)
  • post-modern (1)
  • posters (1)
  • Potomac (1)
  • poverty (2)
  • power (1)
  • power elite (4)
  • PQ (1)
  • pragmatism (5)
  • prague (1)
  • Prague Daily Monitor (1)
  • Prayer (2)
  • Prayer National Day of (1)
  • pre-emptive war (1)
  • pre-existing views (1)
  • predictions (2)
  • Prejudice (2)
  • presidential aspirant (1)
  • presidential aspirants (1)
  • presidential autobiography (1)
  • presidential candidates (1)
  • presidential elections (1)
  • presidents (1)
  • press freedom (1)
  • priests (1)
  • primates (1)
  • privacy (2)
  • private schools (5)
  • privateers (1)
  • privatization (2)
  • privatizers (1)
  • privatizing public school systems (2)
  • pro-choice (1)
  • pro-life (1)
  • prodigal son (1)
  • productivity (1)
  • profit (1)
  • proflies (1)
  • progaganda (1)
  • Prognostications (1)
  • progress (1)
  • progressive (2)
  • progressive era (3)
  • progressive orator (1)
  • progressives (1)
  • Project Nim (1)
  • Prometheus Books (1)
  • proof (2)
  • Propaganda Due (P2) (2)
  • property (1)
  • prosocial (1)
  • prosperity gospel (2)
  • Protestant Ethic (1)
  • pseudo-reformers (1)
  • pseudoscience (1)
  • psyche (1)
  • Psychology (5)
  • Public Education (7)
  • Public funding (1)
  • public funds (1)
  • public intellectuals (2)
  • public office (1)
  • public opinion (1)
  • Public Religion Research Institute (1)
  • public schools (5)
  • Public Science (1)
  • pursuit of happiness (1)
  • putnam (1)
  • puzzle (1)
  • PZ Myers (1)
  • PZMeyers (1)
  • Quebec (1)
  • quote (1)
  • quotes (6)
  • Rabbi Abraham (1)
  • Rabbi Ovadia Yosef (1)
  • race (1)
  • Rachel Maddow (1)
  • Radical Right (1)
  • Radical View on Church and State (1)
  • radicals (1)
  • Rally (1)
  • Ralph Reed (2)
  • Ralph Shortey (1)
  • Ralph Waldo Emerson (1)
  • Rand Paul (2)
  • Randall Collins (1)
  • rape (1)
  • rating agencies (1)
  • rational skepticism (3)
  • rational-emotive therapy (1)
  • Rationalism (2)
  • rationality (1)
  • Ratzinger (1)
  • Ray Comfort (1)
  • RCC (1)
  • re (1)
  • Readiness (1)
  • Reagan (2)
  • Reality (3)
  • Reason (3)
  • Reason Rally (6)
  • Reason Rally 2016 (1)
  • reasoned argument (1)
  • reasoning (3)
  • Rebecca Goldstein (1)
  • Rebecca Watson (1)
  • reciprocity (1)
  • Reddit (1)
  • redemption (1)
  • reducing complexity (1)
  • redwoods (1)
  • referents (1)
  • reflex arc (1)
  • reform (1)
  • refugees (2)
  • regulation (1)
  • reification (2)
  • reincarnation (1)
  • rel-election (1)
  • relative choice (1)
  • relativism (1)
  • religio-industrial complex (1)
  • religion (32)
  • Religiosity (1)
  • religious (1)
  • religious affiliation (2)
  • religious agenda (1)
  • religious belief (2)
  • religious census (1)
  • religious cities (1)
  • Religious Decline (1)
  • religious exemptions (1)
  • religious freedom (3)
  • religious harm (3)
  • religious institutions (1)
  • religious language (1)
  • religious liberty (2)
  • religious neutrality (1)
  • Religious Right (3)
  • Religious Right gurus (1)
  • Religious Right Research (1)
  • religious rivalry (1)
  • Religious Satire (1)
  • religious schools (2)
  • religious situation (1)
  • religious trends (1)
  • relligious agenda (1)
  • Renaissance (1)
  • Rene Girard (1)
  • REPRODUCTIVE JUSTICE (1)
  • reproductive rights (2)
  • Republican Brain (5)
  • Republicans (6)
  • resolutions (1)
  • respect for authority (1)
  • responsibility (4)
  • responsible atheism (1)
  • return on investment (1)
  • revenue (1)
  • REVISIONARIES (1)
  • revolution (2)
  • RFRA (2)
  • Rheeformers (1)
  • Richard Cohen (1)
  • Richard Dawkins (15)
  • Richard Dawkins Foundationm Attack of the Theocrats (2)
  • Richard Ford (1)
  • Richard Hofstadter (1)
  • Richard P. Feynman (1)
  • Richard Powers (1)
  • rick potts (1)
  • Rick Santorum (1)
  • Rick Santorum. liberal education. Whitehead (1)
  • Ricky Gervais (1)
  • Right Livelihood Award (1)
  • Right-wing extremist (1)
  • rights (1)
  • rights of working people (1)
  • Rio+20 (1)
  • risk perception (1)
  • ritual (1)
  • Rob Boston (7)
  • Roberrt Ingersoll (2)
  • Robert Ingersoll (6)
  • Robert Cahalan (1)
  • Robert H. Frank (1)
  • Robert Ingersoll (1)
  • Robert Jeffress (1)
  • Robert Jensen (1)
  • Robert L. Park (1)
  • Robert Michels (1)
  • Robert N. Bellah (1)
  • robins (2)
  • robots (2)
  • Rock Beyond Belief (1)
  • Roger Ebert (1)
  • role of government (2)
  • roles (1)
  • Rolling Stone (1)
  • Roman Catholic Church (1)
  • Roman empire (1)
  • romantic love (1)
  • Romney (1)
  • Romney-Ryan (1)
  • Ron Lindsay (5)
  • Ron Suskind (1)
  • Ron Ziegler (1)
  • Ronald Regan (1)
  • ROULETTE (1)
  • rove (1)
  • Rowan Williams (1)
  • Roy Speckhardt (1)
  • Roy Torcaso (1)
  • RTE (1)
  • Rupert Murdoch (1)
  • Russia (1)
  • Rutgers (1)
  • Ruth Marcus (1)
  • Rwanda (1)
  • Rwanda massacre (1)
  • Saad Zaghlul (1)
  • Sacred Values (1)
  • sacrifice (1)
  • safety net (2)
  • salesmen (1)
  • Salt Lake City (1)
  • Sam Harris (5)
  • same-sex couples (1)
  • Samuel Clemens (1)
  • sanctimony (1)
  • Sandra Bullock (1)
  • Sandy Hook Elementary (1)
  • Sansho the Bailiff (1)
  • Santorum (2)
  • Sarah Morehead (1)
  • Sarah Palin (1)
  • Saul Perlmutter (1)
  • SB 1062 (1)
  • SB 302 (1)
  • scandals (2)
  • scapegoats (1)
  • schizophrenia (2)
  • School Choice (2)
  • School Choice Works (1)
  • school funding (1)
  • school prayerrobert Ingersoll (1)
  • school voucher plan (2)
  • school vouchers (11)
  • science (12)
  • Science Cafes (1)
  • science culture (1)
  • science deniers (1)
  • Science Festivals (1)
  • science maps (1)
  • Sciences (1)
  • scientific method (1)
  • Scientific Naturalism (1)
  • Scientism (1)
  • Scientology (1)
  • scietntic explanation (1)
  • Scott Walker (1)
  • SCOTUS (1)
  • scripture (1)
  • scrooge (1)
  • sea level rise (1)
  • SEAD (1)
  • Seamus Famous (1)
  • Seamus Heaney (1)
  • Sean Faircloth (2)
  • Seasons (2)
  • sectarian institutions (1)
  • secular (12)
  • Secular Coalition for America (1)
  • secular communities (2)
  • secular grace (1)
  • secular holidays (2)
  • secular humanism (16)
  • Secular Humanist (4)
  • Secular Humanist Society of New York (1)
  • secular music (2)
  • Secular Perspectives (2)
  • Secular Pilgrimage (1)
  • secular poems (1)
  • secular reading (1)
  • secular society (1)
  • Secular Student Alliance (3)
  • secular vote (1)
  • secularism (5)
  • Secularism Winning (1)
  • secularists (1)
  • seculr society (1)
  • security blanket (1)
  • security sector reform (1)
  • Sedition Act (1)
  • self control (1)
  • self interest.patriots (1)
  • Selfish Gene (2)
  • semantic possibilities (1)
  • semantics (2)
  • Seneca (1)
  • sensationalism (1)
  • sentiment analysis (1)
  • Separation Of Church & State (1)
  • separation of church and state (3)
  • sermons (2)
  • settlements (1)
  • Seventh-day Adventist (1)
  • Sexual Abuse (3)
  • sexual relations (1)
  • sexuality (1)
  • shadow elite (1)
  • Sharpstick Productions (1)
  • Sheldon Adelson (1)
  • Sherwin Wine (1)
  • Shin Bet (1)
  • Shlomo Sand (1)
  • Shmuley Boteach (1)
  • Shock Doctrine (1)
  • show trial (1)
  • SHSNY newsletter (1)
  • Shwetak Patel (1)
  • Sierra Club (1)
  • Sikivu Hutchinson (1)
  • Silent House (1)
  • Silverdocs (2)
  • Silvio Berlusconi (1)
  • Simon Blackburn (1)
  • site use (1)
  • Skeptic (2)
  • skepticism (11)
  • Skyland (1)
  • slavery (3)
  • Sloan Great Wall (1)
  • slogans twitter trending (1)
  • sly mechanisms (1)
  • smart meters (1)
  • smears (1)
  • Smithsonian (3)
  • Smithsonian NMNH (1)
  • Snag films (1)
  • snow (1)
  • social change (1)
  • social contamination (1)
  • Social Darwinism (3)
  • Social Justice (2)
  • Social Justice Christians (1)
  • social knowledge (1)
  • Social Limits to Growth (1)
  • social networks (1)
  • social security (3)
  • social unrest (1)
  • socialist (1)
  • society (1)
  • Sociology (2)
  • Sociology of Religion (1)
  • Socrates (1)
  • soft power (1)
  • Sojourners (1)
  • solar energy (2)
  • solar system (1)
  • Songs (1)
  • Sonia Sanchez (1)
  • soul (3)
  • South Carolina (1)
  • South Korea (1)
  • space (3)
  • Spanish Civil War (1)
  • species (1)
  • speeches (1)
  • spin (1)
  • spinoza (3)
  • spirit (1)
  • spiritualism (1)
  • spirituality (2)
  • Spirituals (1)
  • spring (1)
  • Spring Equinox (2)
  • SSA (1)
  • stability (1)
  • standard model (1)
  • standing in court (1)
  • Starbucks (2)
  • state budgets (2)
  • State constitutions (1)
  • state referendums (1)
  • state security (1)
  • state's rights (1)
  • statesmen (1)
  • statistics (1)
  • Statue of Liberty (1)
  • Stefano Pitrelli (1)
  • Stephan Colbert (1)
  • Stephan Mumford (1)
  • Stephen Colbert (1)
  • Stephen Greenblatt (1)
  • Steve Lowe (1)
  • Steven Pinker (2)
  • steward (1)
  • stories (1)
  • storm porn (1)
  • struggle (1)
  • Stuart Jordan (3)
  • subjective (1)
  • Sudan (1)
  • suicide (1)
  • Suicide N Sanity (1)
  • Sumeria (1)
  • summer movies (1)
  • summer reading (1)
  • summer solstice (1)
  • sun cookiers (1)
  • Sun-Climate Research (1)
  • Sunday Effect (1)
  • Sunlight Foundation (2)
  • super bowl (1)
  • superman (1)
  • supernatural (3)
  • supernaturalism (1)
  • superstition (1)
  • Superstorm Sandy (1)
  • Supreme Court (2)
  • Supreme Court decisions (1)
  • surveillance (1)
  • Susan Jacoby (5)
  • sustainability (6)
  • sustained development (1)
  • Symbolic disaster (1)
  • Syria (1)
  • system 1 (1)
  • system 2 (1)
  • tabloids (1)
  • Tahrir Square (2)
  • talking points (1)
  • tar sands (1)
  • targeted ads (1)
  • tax cuts (2)
  • tax rates (1)
  • taxes (2)
  • tcamp2011 (1)
  • tea party (3)
  • teachable moment (1)
  • teacher (1)
  • teacher tenure (1)
  • Team Human (1)
  • techno skeptics (1)
  • Technology (3)
  • Templeton Prize (1)
  • terrace (1)
  • terrorism (2)
  • Terry Jones (1)
  • Terry Lindvall (1)
  • tersob (1)
  • Texas Agricultural Commissioner (1)
  • Texas GOP (1)
  • Texas State Board of Education (1)
  • textbooks (1)
  • Thanksgiving (6)
  • Thanksgiving sermon (1)
  • The God Argument (1)
  • The Borgias (1)
  • The Cybernetic Atheist (2)
  • The Devil Inside (1)
  • The Essence of Humanism (1)
  • The Extra Mile (1)
  • The Family (1)
  • The Forge (1)
  • The Fragility of Goodness (1)
  • The Gatekeepers (1)
  • The Good Book (3)
  • the good lie (1)
  • The Great Transition (1)
  • The Great War (1)
  • The Humanist (2)
  • The Last Word (2)
  • The Lay of the Land (1)
  • the media (2)
  • The Nation magazine (1)
  • The New Encyclopedia of UNBELIEF (3)
  • The Pope's War (1)
  • The Rights of Nature (2)
  • THE ROYAL PHYSICIAN'S VISIT (1)
  • The Sacred and the Profane (1)
  • The Social Conquest of Earth (1)
  • the soul fallacy (2)
  • The Soul Hypothesis (1)
  • The Source (1)
  • The Sunday Assembly (2)
  • The Theory of Everything (1)
  • The Truth (1)
  • the West (1)
  • Theology (6)
  • theories (1)
  • things (2)
  • think tank (1)
  • Thinking (2)
  • tholic (1)
  • Thomas (1)
  • Thomas Cromwell (1)
  • Thomas Jefferson (11)
  • Thomas More (1)
  • Thomas Nagel (1)
  • Thomas Paine (3)
  • Thomas Patrick Melady (1)
  • Thomas Piketty (1)
  • Thomas Starr King (2)
  • Three Farmers (1)
  • Tim DeChristopher (1)
  • time (1)
  • tipping point (1)
  • Tocqueville (1)
  • Toffler (1)
  • toilet seats (1)
  • tolerance (4)
  • Tom Delay (1)
  • Tom Flynn (13)
  • Tom Paine (2)
  • Tom Roberts (1)
  • too big to fail (1)
  • too little too late (1)
  • Tools for Thinking (1)
  • Torah (1)
  • Torcaso (1)
  • torture (1)
  • tours (1)
  • Toyota (1)
  • trade deficit (1)
  • tragedy (2)
  • Transparency (1)
  • Transparency Camp (2)
  • Transparency International (1)
  • Trayvon Martin (1)
  • treacherous holiday (1)
  • tree of life (2)
  • Tresha Mabile (1)
  • triangle of meaning (1)
  • tribalism (1)
  • trickle down (1)
  • trickle down economics (1)
  • Trinity Broadcasting Network (1)
  • Trinity College (1)
  • trouble with Christman (1)
  • True Believer (2)
  • true History (1)
  • Truett Cathy (1)
  • trump (1)
  • trust (1)
  • trust. Will Gervis (1)
  • truth (4)
  • Truthiness (2)
  • Truthy (1)
  • tsunami (1)
  • Tucson (1)
  • Turkana Boy (1)
  • Tutsi (1)
  • TV images (1)
  • Tversky (1)
  • Twain study (1)
  • tweets (1)
  • Twenty-first century solutions (1)
  • Twilight of the Elites (2)
  • twitter (3)
  • U.S. Constitution (2)
  • Ukraine (2)
  • ultra-Orthodox (1)
  • unanticipated consequences (1)
  • undecided voters (1)
  • undemocratic selectivity (2)
  • understanding (1)
  • unemployment (1)
  • UNESCO (1)
  • union busting (1)
  • union rights (1)
  • unions (2)
  • Unitarian Church of Lynchburg (1)
  • Unitarian Universalist Association (1)
  • Unitarians (1)
  • United Church of Canada (1)
  • United Church of Christ (1)
  • United Nations (2)
  • Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1)
  • universal human rights (1)
  • University at Buffalo (1)
  • University of Chicago Press (1)
  • University of Illinois (1)
  • unknowable (1)
  • up (1)
  • Up w/Chris Hayes (1)
  • uppers (1)
  • urban legend (1)
  • US capital (1)
  • US dollar. Chicago School (1)
  • USC (1)
  • Ushahidi (1)
  • USNews (1)
  • utility of religion (1)
  • utopian ideas (1)
  • UUA (2)
  • UUs (1)
  • vaccinations (1)
  • vague language (3)
  • value of prayer (1)
  • values (2)
  • Vatican (8)
  • Vegas’s Schools (1)
  • verbal salad (1)
  • Vergara ruling (1)
  • Vicar of Dibley (1)
  • Vietnam War (1)
  • Vilsack (1)
  • violence (1)
  • Violence towards women (1)
  • violent movies (1)
  • violent narrative (1)
  • Virginia Act for Establishing Religious Freedom. Thomas Jefferson (1)
  • Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom (1)
  • virtue (2)
  • virtuous circles (1)
  • viruses (1)
  • vocabulary (1)
  • Voice of Reason (2)
  • Voltaire (2)
  • VOR (1)
  • vote rigging (1)
  • voter's paradox (1)
  • voting (1)
  • voucher schemes (1)
  • voucherizers (1)
  • Vouchers (2)
  • Vox (1)
  • Voyager 1 (2)
  • wall street (1)
  • Walmart (2)
  • Walmart Family Foundation (1)
  • Walt Whitman (3)
  • WAPO (11)
  • war (4)
  • war generals (1)
  • War on Christmas (3)
  • war on terror (2)
  • war on women (1)
  • Warren Allen Smith (1)
  • wars (1)
  • WASH (12)
  • WASH banquet (2)
  • WASH MDC (3)
  • WASHcon15 (3)
  • Washington Area Secular Humanist (3)
  • Washington Post (5)
  • Washington Times (1)
  • Water for People (1)
  • watersheds (1)
  • wealth gap (3)
  • weather porn (1)
  • Wendell Berry (1)
  • Western Roman empire (1)
  • what makes us human (1)
  • whistle blowers (1)
  • Who's Who in Hell (1)
  • Wikipedia (2)
  • willful ignorance (1)
  • William James (2)
  • Willy Wonka (1)
  • wind power (1)
  • Winner Take all (2)
  • winning (1)
  • winning battles (1)
  • winter holiday (1)
  • winter solstice (2)
  • Wisconsin (1)
  • wisdom (2)
  • Wolf Hall (1)
  • women (1)
  • women's rights (2)
  • Woodlawn Cemetery (1)
  • Woody Guthrie (1)
  • word analysis (1)
  • words (3)
  • Works Progress Administration (1)
  • World Brain (1)
  • World Environment Day (1)
  • World Food Prize (1)
  • World Humanist Day (2)
  • World War II (1)
  • WorldCom (1)
  • WWF (1)
  • WWI (1)
  • x prize (1)
  • Xi (1)
  • XL pipeline (1)
  • Yaakov Malkin (1)
  • Yahweh (3)
  • year in review (1)
  • Yod (1)
  • young earth. evolution (1)
  • youth (1)
  • Yuval Diskin (1)
  • Zalasiewicz (1)
  • zealots (1)
  • Zero Dark Thirty (1)
  • Zeus (1)
  • zircon (1)
  • Zombies (1)
  • zone of possible agreement (1)
  • zoo (1)

●

Followers

●
Disclaimer

Posts to this blog are the opinions of the authors and not endorsed by WASH or 
its membership.
●

Total Pageviews

●
 
Simple template. Template images by enot-poloskun. Powered by Blogger.
●
