First Coast Freethought Society, Inc.

Search...[Search...           ] 
  • Welcome
  • Activities
  • News

  • Skip to content

  • Increase font size
  • Decrease font size
  • Default font size

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Book Discussion Groups
  • Bylaws
  • Contact Us
  • Join, Renew, Donate
  • Meetings
  • Membership Application
  • Newsletters
  • Statement of Principles
  • Videos of Meetings
  • Website Administration

Next Meeting

  •  Print 
  • Email

Monday, February 15, 2016

TITLE: "The Religious Freedom Restoration Act and its Dangers to Secular
Society and Government"

SPEAKER: Toni Van Pelt, President, Institute for Science and Human Values

DESCRIPTION: With increasing frequency, we are seeing individuals, businesses,
organizations and institutions claiming a right to discriminate—by refusing to
provide services to women and LGBT people and (those who will be next)—based on
religious objections. These are the same arguments that were used in the 1960s
to oppose laws requiring integration in restaurants because of sincerely held
beliefs that God wanted the races to be separate. We saw religiously-affiliated
universities refuse to admit students who engaged in interracial dating. Now
the radical right is working to expand allowance of this discrimination for
"moral" reasons. Imposing beliefs on others who do not share them goes against
the very fiber and core of not just secular humanist values and principles, but
American family values as well. Van Pelt will illuminate the history of RFRA
and outline the damage it has done to date.

MEETINGS ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC • NO TICKETS REQUIRED • FREE PARKING

Welcome

  •  Print 
  • Email

Welcome to the First Coast Freethought Society.  Now in our eighteenth year!

Founded in 1998, we are a group of freethinkers dedicated to promoting science
and reason over dogma, faith, and belief in the supernatural. Our purpose is to
serve the needs of the nonreligious population of Northeast Florida, promoting
secular humanism, and a non-theistic outlook and approach to everyday life.

We provide a place where agnostics, atheists, freethinkers, and secular
humanists can gather to hear speakers, discuss philosophy, science, and other
topics of interest. We offer support to those who have rejected or are
questioning their religious beliefs.

At our meetings, you will find a forum for individuals interested in learning
more about humanism and freethought. Through lectures and informal discussions,
we explore topics of interest and enjoy fellowship with like-minded people.
Meetings are free and open to the public. In addition to monthly meetings, we
offer a variety of other activities. See below. We hope to see you at a meeting
or another activity that appeals to you!

The First Coast Freethought Society is a non-profit, tax-exempt, educational
organization under IRS Chapter 501(c)(3).

Activities

  •  Print 
  • Email

Regular Monthly Meetings

  • When: 6:30 - 8:30 p.m., the THIRD MONDAY of every month
  • Where: Buckman Bridge Unitarian Universalist Church, 8447 Manresa Ave,
    Jacksonville, FL 32244. From the I-295 Roosevelt exit, go north to the
    first traffic light, Collins Rd. Turn right. Go 400 ft. The church driveway
    will be on your right.
  • What: A formal program, usually a guest speaker, followed by questions and
    answers.

Humanist Book Discussion Groups

Jacksonville

  • When: The FIRST SUNDAY of every month. Times vary.
  • Where: Locations vary, usually a Jacksonville restaurant.
  • What: Click "Jacksonville" above for current book, complete reading list,
    meeting details, and link to join.

St. Augustine

  • When: 7:00 - 8:30 p.m., the SECOND THURSDAY of every month.
  • Where: Clubhouse at a private condominium in St. Augustine (Anastasia
    Island).
  • What: Click "St. Augustine" above for current book selection, complete
    reading list, and contact information.

Monthly Olive Garden Social

  • When: Drinks at 6:00 p.m., dinner at 7:00, the FOURTH TUESDAY of every
    month
  • Where: Olive Garden Restaurant, 10144 Philips Highway, Jacksonville, FL
    32256, across from The Avenues Mall Order from the menu.
  • What: An opportunity to learn about the FCFS, meet like-minded people, make
    new friends.  You need not be a member to attend.

Secular Sunday in the Park

  • When: 10:00 a.m., the FOURTH SUNDAY of every month
  • Where: Losco Regional Park, under the pavilion, 10851 Hood Road South,
    Jacksonville, FL 32257
    What: Conversation and coffee in the fresh air

Dignity U Wear

  • This activity has been discontinued for the time being.

Monthly Newsletter

  • Everyone can receive The First Coast FreeThinker via e-mail, view it in
    your browser, or download it from our website. Members are entitled to
    receive the U.S. Mail hard-copy version.
  • A trial subscription of the hard-copy version is available for three months
    at no charge, following which, you need to join to continue to receive it.

Yahoo! Group for Freethinkers

  • Join the FCFS Yahoo! Group, Jaxfreethought, to exchange e-mail with other
    freethinkers. You need not be a member of the FCFS to participate.
  • To subscribe, send a blank email to jaxfreethought.

Dinners for Doubters

  • Dinners for Doubters is a convenient, easy way to create an instant dinner
    party, get to know other freethinkers, and make new friends in intimate
    surroundings. It works like this: Someone decides to host a Dinner for
    Doubters. The host or hostess picks a date and decides how many people he
    or she would like to invite. A party totaling eight seems to work well, but
    this is entirely up to you. You may want only four! We then put a sign-up
    sheet at the back table at our monthly meetings, and guests sign up to
    attend. When the guest list is filled, the host or hostess contacts each
    guest to arrange the menu and who will bring what. Often, the host or
    hostess provides the entrée, and the guests provide a salad, beverage,
    vegetable, dessert, etc. But again, who brings what is entirely up to the
    participants. In fact, if a person whose house is very small wanted to host
    a dinner, they could pick a restaurant and all go Dutch. The goal of
    Dinners for Doubters is to allow mixing and mingling, getting to know new
    and different people, and to allow freethinker friendships to flourish.
    Consider hosting a dinner. Be watching for a Dinners for Doubters sign-in
    sheet at the back table!

Main Menu

  • Home
  • About Us
  • Book Discussion Groups
  • Bylaws
  • Contact Us
  • Join, Renew, Donate
  • Meetings
  • Membership Application
  • Newsletters
  • Statement of Principles
  • Videos of Meetings
  • Website Administration

Jacksonville Atheists Meetup

Secular Saint Augustine

Secular Saint Augustine

Florida Humanist Association

[FHA_]

Email List

Click here to join our email list.

Amazon

Start your Amazon.com purchases from this web site, and help the First Coast
Freethought Society. Amazon will pay us a referral fee for all purchases that
start from these links, without any additional cost to you.

&lt;A HREF="http://ws-na.amazon-adsystem.com/widgets/q?ServiceVersion=20070822&
amp;MarketPlace=US&amp;ID=
V20070822%2FUS%2Ffirscoasfrees-20%2F8002%2Fe1fd79fc-a7bf-4e16-9b50-14bb08ae3371
&amp;Operation=NoScript"&gt;Amazon.com Widgets&lt;/A&gt;

Latest News

  • Next Meeting
  • Activities
  • Welcome

Popular

  • Meetings
  • Humanist Book Discussion Group - Jacksonville
  • Email List
  • Newsletters
  • Activities

Copyright (C) 2016 First Coast Freethought Society, Inc.. All Rights Reserved. 
Joomla! is Free Software released under the GNU General Public License.
Our site is valid CSS Our site is valid XHTML 1.0 Transitional
