Site hosted by Angelfire.com: Build your free website today!
Site hosted by Angelfire.com: Build your free website today!
                                       
                             THE REALLY GOOD NEWS

                      Toward a personal atheist apologia.

                                    pensee

Summary. Is this page worth     Biography of the author. Is this writer worth
your time?                      your effort?

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
         Introduction to the argument Narrowing the topic of interest

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
The basis of all spiritual ...defined... ...and         ...from a skeptical
systems...                               discussed...   point of view

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
       An objection to the method used What I want the reader to do now

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
          A personal Apologia for atheism Conclusion to the argument

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
            Links and Communication including guestbook and counter

                                    pensee

Introduction

Humanity uses a variety of social systems to give order and meaning to life's
problems, pleasures, and discoveries. Among those systems are those built on
spirituality, such as religion, divination, meditation, and psychic power. For
a spiritualist, their own system is a unique revelation in a world full of
revelations. Other spiritual systems are wrong, or wrong for the particular
practitioner.

For me the question of finding the spiritual system that is right, or right for
myself, is less important than the question as to whether any spiritual system
is worth the investment of time. To explore that question, I will discover and
discuss the basis of all spiritual systems. Finding the basis to spirituality
is the first step in an honest investigation into spiritual systems.

The Topic of Interest

Candidates for the foundation to all spiritual systems include angels, prayer,
faith, purposefulness of life and of death, mystical events, sin and evil , and
others, no doubt. None of these, however, is the "basis", because all these
types of events are mediated or caused by the "spiritual" state of the
practitioner, and their relationship to their god. At the very base of
spirituality are these two things: the practitioner (more specifically, the
part of the practitioner that can contact their god), and the god. To put it
another, more generic, way: spirits and superspirits.

The "Basis"

The basis of all forms of spirituality, then, are these two concepts: that
spirits are somehow connected to individuals; that there is a superspirit.
Sometimes a particular spiritual system maintains that spirits are connected to
people only, as in the Egypto-Grecian religions; sometimes to all animals;
sometimes that spirits are in rocks and wind in addition to living things, as
in Shinto or Mother-Earth spirituality. The second common element is a
superspirit. Sometimes it is god, or godhead; sometimes it is a state of
supreme spiritual enlightenment, as in Buddhism or Jainism.

The practice of spirituality is a quest to reach the individual's spirit to the
superspirit, either after death, or within the lifetime or lifetimes of the
spirit. Many spiritual systems have been constructed to do this. But if the
concepts at the very base of these practices are not reliable, then the
practices themselves are questionable and the objects of those practices
unreliable also.

      Discussions of the Basis of Spirituality from a Skeptical Viewpoint

┏━━━━━━━━━━━┯━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃           │"Does it not, then, appear that we are dealing with the laws     ┃
┃           │rather of myth, fairy tales, and legends than of any order of    ┃
┃           │fact yet substantiated for either natural or human history? It is┃
┃           │difficult to imagine how tales such as these could have been read┃
┃           │even centuries ago as chronicles of fact...th(is) old ritual     ┃
┃Spirits    │lore... with its concept of a hidden harmony and equivalence     ┃
┃aren't.    │uniting the microcosm and the macrocosm and of a consequent      ┃
┃           │resonance conducive to magical effects."                         ┃
┃           │                                                                 ┃
┃           │-Joseph Campbell                                                 ┃
┃           │Masks of God                                                     ┃
┃           │Three sentences from volume 2 & 3 of the series.                 ┃
┠───────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┨
┃           │(The Marquis de) Leplace is said to have presented an edition of ┃
┃           │his seminal mathematical work Mecanique celeste to Napolean      ┃
┃           │aboard ship in the Mediterranean during the Napoleonic expedition┃
┃           │to Egypt, 1798 to 1799. A few days later, so the story goes,     ┃
┃God(s)     │Napolean complained to Laplace that he found no mention of God in┃
┃isn't.     │the text. Laplace's response has been recorded: "Sire, I have no ┃
┃           │need of that hypothesis."                                        ┃
┃           │                                                                 ┃
┃           │Carl Sagan                                                       ┃
┃           │Broca's Brain. Reflections on the Romance of Science.            ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━┷━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛



An Objection

An objection to my methodology has been raised centering on the idea of
historicity. That is, the religious heros are historical, their revelations are
believable. To discount the historicity of any particular hero is wrong because
that hero is the objector's favorite, or only, spiritual hero.

The place to start, according to my objectors, would be an historical analysis.
Further, my objectors would start their analysis by taking the story they favor
as a given fact not as one story out of several stories to analyze. If we find
the birth place, the palace, where the boy who becames the Buddha was born do
we automatically believe he was surrounded by demons as he sat under the Tree?
That he placed his right hand upon the earth in prayer to be protected so he
could continue his redeeming work? If we find the battlefields of the Illiad do
we then believe that rivers, of their own accord, leave their riverbanks to
chase their enemies?

I'll take present conditions as the operating conditions for life and society
unless I see truly extraordinary evidence. By truly extraordinary evidence I
mean evidence that cannot be equalled by other naturally occuring events.

It hasn't escaped my attention that those who live in a spirit-filled world
have a different view of normal "operating conditions"or that those who view
such a world may well see spirits intervening in natural occuring events. I do
contend that the supreme spirit in such a spirit-filled world could well make
itself known by causing events that were inexplicable without a non-natural
causer. As technology and science progress those zones where god alone could be
shrink and have fianlly disappeared.

                      What Action Should the Reader Take?

It's not up to me, and if you're comfortable with your spirituality, good. I,
however, am comfortable with my lack of spirituality, and feel justified in
rejecting all spirituality as folklore. But I can't take an "unholier than
thou" attitude. After all, I enjoy listening to Led Zep, Alanis Morissette, and
Enigma, and read the novels of Lustbader and Roquelaure, all of which is very
spiritual stuff, albeit a heterodox spirituality. Nevertheless, if you're
serious about investigating spirituality (as I am) you need to clarify in your
mind the central, and unasked, question of spirituality: is there a good
objective reason to believe in spirits and superspirits?

The preceeding arguments attempt to show the unreliablity of spirituality. If
the elements common to all of these systems are unreliable, then all of
spirituality: religion; divination; prayer; angelology; salvation; end-times;
is questionable because these secondary items are derived from the primary
items. The secondary items' truth claims are derived from those primary items.

So, having explained how I came to reject the spiritual, I'll exlain why I call
myself an atheist.

                                    pensee

                                   Apologia

Apologia
    ap o lo gi a; n. an apology, as in a defense or justification of a belief,
    idea, etc.

 1. The universe doesn't need a maker for it to be.
 2. Spirits are not necessary for gestation.
 3. "Mind" is a name for brain activity.
 4. Love is chemistry.
 5. Life doesn't need a maker.
 6. Geology is understood, and punctuated equilibrium is the key.
 7. Hominid evolution is understood.
 8. Human languages can be traced back beyond Proto-Indo-European.
 9. No particular religious hero is unassailable.
10. Religion has a history, but that does not necessarily mean a goal-oriented
    process is occuring.
11. Morality and ethics are social inventions.
12. Patterns are not necessarily indicative of artifice or of intent.
13. A broad range of studies support themselves on each other's discoveries
    without supernatural help.

These reasons, taken individually,or even severally, may well admit room for
one or the other of the bases of spirituality. Taken as a whole they lend
credibility to atheism as a whole and to atheists, their sensibility and
credibility, individually.

It has not escaped my attention that some of these reasons are currently
unsubstantiated (not to say metaphysical), but they are not weak. I am
referring only to the third, fourth, and last points. The rest are not
unsubstantial.

                                    pensee
                                       
                                  Conclusion

You have the right to follow, to any degree, any spiritual doctrine you wish;
to interpret that doctrine as you desire, and, even the right to consider all
other interpretations, and/or any other spiritual doctrine, heretical. You have
the right to meet with fellow believers in any club house on any day you
decide, for whatever reason you decide, unless you plan on sacrificing me. You
have the right to seek converts to your brand of spirituality, any doctrine,
any denominational club, or specific club house.

But you also have the right to completely reject spirituality. And that is
really good news.

                            Mail and Communication

Mail me | What the critics are saying | Sign My Guestbook Get your own FREE
Guestbook from htmlGEAR View My Guestbook | Resources, links and book reviews

                                 My Other Page

                              Apologetics Reviews

Visitor counter:
[Count]

Last update:5/31/04

Copyright Notice: Please feel free to use whatever you want pro or con. A link
back to this page would be nice, but what am I going to do if you don't link
back, right?

Valid HTML 4.0!

