Friendly Path Atheists
Southeastern Indiana
[wpd5]
●
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Address Line 1
Address Line 2

"Eternal suffering awaits anyone who questions God's infinite love." Bill Hicks

 

Email: friendlypath@yahoo.com

Copyright © All rights reserved. Made by Serif.  

[wp7f263360_05]
Bible Stories
[wpdbb47070]
Lifetime Reminders
[wpa4542b9a]

2 Kings 2:23-24 And he went up from thence unto Beth-el: and as he was going up
by the way, there came forth little children out of the city, and mocked him,
and said unto him, Go up, thou bald head: go up, thou bald head. And he turned
back, and looked on them, and cursed them in the name of the Lord.  And there
came forth two she bears out of the wood, and tare forty and two children of
them.

 

  • None of the secrets of success will work unless you do.
  • Don’t worry about what others think, they don’t do it very often.
  • If you never make mistakes, you’re not trying hard enough.
  • If you always do what you always did, you will always get what you always
    got.
  • Life may not be the party we hoped for but, while we are here we might as
    well dance.
  • Going to church, temple, or mosque doesn't make you religious any more then
    standing in a garage makes you a mechanic.
  • I refuse to tip toe through life only to arrive safely at death.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

 

Once I was there too, as a believer and the son of a preacher I was dedicated
to the cool-aid so to speak.

I went to a Christian college and received a BA in Religion & Philosophy and
later a BS in Education. But there are some really awful things in the Bible
and I finally realized that I could not believe in a god that acted like that.

 

I mean, a god that gets mad

at his own creation because they ate of the tree of knowledge?  So he curses
all of them

that haven't even been born?  And later murders them all in a big flood.  And
then saves

them from the curse by basically having himself tortured to death (in the form
of half man

half god)? And then they still aren't saved from the curse unless they believe
this story.

 

So the vast majority of people, raised by non Christian parents,

will be tortured in hell forever while the believers watch in heaven, warming
their feet

from hells fire, and enjoying the show as they sing "How Great Though Art" for
all of

eternity.... What's not to believe.  Makes sense if you don't think about it.

 

There’s a lot more unbelievable things in there, just don’t have room for it
all here.

●
●
●
[wpe3f7c]
[wp0c481335_05]

Matthew 6:5-6    when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are::
for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the
streets, that they may be seen of men.   They have their reward.  But when thou
prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy
Father

