Toggle navigation New Orleans Secular Humanist Association

  • Home
  • About
  • Blog
  • Calendar
  • Media
  • News
  • Local
  • Friends
  • Archive

NOSHA  

New Orleans Secular Humanist Association

Bookmark AmazonSmile ! You shop, Amazon gives. Your shopping will support
NOSHA.

Be a Pastafarian in Chewbacchus!

  • When: Saturday, January 30, 2016 @ 5:00 pm
  • Feelings Cafe D'Aunoy, 2600 Chartres Street, New Orleans, LA view map

[600_445721]

Join your NOSHA friends as a member of the Mystic Krewe of the Evangelical
Pastafarians and walk in the popular 2016 Chewbacchus parade! Is this on your
bucket list? Well, now you can scratch it off!

____ Join our Facebook group to be updated on the details:  https://
www.facebook.com/groups/evangelicalpastafarians/

____ Decide on a costume (Ex: pirate, monk, nun, priest, put a colander on your
head, etc.,). Or feel free to develop something entirely of your own
imagination.

____ Create and/or assemble your throws (Ex: packets of Ramen noodles, pasta
necklaces and bracelets, etc.,). But remember, it should be light weight if you
are planning to carry it; unless you get a basket or cart to ease your load...
always recommended when you are bringing a bunch of different throws.

____ Be a current member of NOSHA (only $25 for an annual Individual
membership) Go to  http://nosha.info/ and look for the Member PayPal button in
the right-hand column.

____ Sign up as a member of Chewbacchus (dues $42). This is a 'must' because
this allows you to walk in the parade and is your ticket to the "after party"
activities.  http://chewbacchus.org/join-the-krewe/membership/


 

Last Supper Dinner Club - February

  • When: Tuesday, February 02, 2016 @ 6:30 pm
  • Bei Tempi Italian Restaurant, 901 Convention Center Blvd., #115, New
    Orleans, LA view map

[600_333031]

We should honor the Flying Spaghetti Monster this season, especially since we
just completed our third Chewbacchus Parade as the Evangelical Pastafarians.
"In Pasta We Trust" and all that, you know!

As a courtesy to the other attendees and the restaurant, please be sure that
your RSVP is accurate as of the afternoon of this event. 


 

Greer-Heard 2016 – “How Did Jesus Become God?”

  • When: Friday, February 12, 2016 @ 7:00 pm
  • New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary, 3939 Gentilly Blvd, New Orleans,
    view map

[600_444059]

The featured speakers for this dialogue are Bart Ehrman and Michael Bird.

Ehrman is the James A. Gray Distinguished Professor at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. At UNC he has served as both the  Director of
Graduate Studies and the Chair of the Department of Religious Studies. A
graduate of Wheaton College, Professor Ehrman received both his Masters of
Divinity and Ph.D. from Princeton Theological Seminary. Since then he has
published extensively in the fields of New Testament and Early Christianity,
having written or edited twenty-nine books, including the bestselling How Jesus
Became God: The Exaltation of a Jewish Preacher from Galilee (2014), Jesus
Interrupted (2009), God’s Problem (2008), and Misquoting Jesus (2005).

Michael Bird

Bird (Ph.D University of Queensland) is Lecturer in Theology at Ridley College
in Melbourne, Australia. He is the author and editor of several books such as
the award winning The Gospel of the Lord: How the Early Church Wrote the Story
of Jesus plus several others volumes including Jesus is the Christ: The
Messianic Testimony of the Gospels, Are You the One Who is to Come? The
Historical Jesus and the Messianic Question, Evangelical Theology, Romans 
(Story of God Bible Commentary Series), and How God Became Jesus. He lives in
Melbourne with his wife and four children, and enjoys rugby league, running,
cooking, and trying to explain cricket to Americans.

This is an annual keynote event that some seculars greatly enjoy because it
puts them in touch with major authors, scientists and other leaders who become
icons to non-believers. 

There is a fee to attend this event, but we always set up a discounted rate for
NOSHA members.

Register here
After you select "individual" you will see the page to choose "Registration
Type" and you will select Non-NOBTS Students – $10.  Then you will be given a
link that will allow you to pay (using the same category). You are NOT
officially registered until you follow through on the payment!


 

The Tom Neilson Show ~~ NOSHA Fundraiser!

  • When: Saturday, February 13, 2016 @ 5:30 pm
  • Mag's 940, 940 Elysian Fields Ave., New Orleans, LA view map

[600_446109]

Support NOSHA! Buy your ticket to hear guitarist and singer Tom Neilson in his
return appearance to New Orleans!

Doors open at 5:30pm. Only $10 per person for a wonderful evening of great
music and friendship. Cake and refreshments served! Cash bar!

Get your ticket now at the NOSHA website!  (Look for the "Buy Now" button in
the right hand column)  "Early Bird" - $10 (until February 6), $15 - Prepay
online, $20 - At the door

"This is very good music and very good  politics." ~Tom Paxton

"One of the most savvy songwriters I know." ~World Soul Records

"A thoughtful combination of art and activism."  ~ Dr. Aaron Peeks, Sociology
Elon University

"Politically cutting-edge, incisive, warm, and very funny! Raucous satire and
quick wit; had everyone laughing and engaged." ~Cathy Gilbert, Miami Dade
Greens

"Marvelous wit, endlessly creative, the storyteller’s storyteller."  ~ Layne
Longfellow, Prescott AZ, Unitarian Universalist 

"Skewers the outrageous behavior of the greedy and powerful in corporations,
the media and government."   ~People’s Voice Café Collective, NYC

"Does a great job of reminding people of what is really important, and the
power of folk music to say it."  ~Michael Stock, WLRN, Miami, FL


 

New Episodes - The New Orleans Humanist Perspective

Program 197: Patricia Gay

[hqdefault]

Host Harry Greenberger talks with Patricia Gay, Executive Director of the
Preservation Resource Center. http://nosha.info/

 
Posted on 2016-01-07T19:14:52+00:00

Program 196: Jeff Crouere

[hqdefault]

Host Harry Greenberger talks with Jeff Crouere, host of "Ringside Politics With
a Punch." http://nosha.info/

 
Posted on 2016-01-07T17:56:16+00:00

Watch more episodes on our Media page.

I'm a Humanist Because...

                           I'm a Humanist Because...
 “I’m a tiny Humanist because that’s the...
25 December 2013 | 10:37 am
 

Bookmark AmazonSmile ! You shop, Amazon gives. Your shopping will support
NOSHA.

Tom Neilson Concert!

Support NOSHA! Buy your ticket to hear guitarist and singer Tom Neilson on
Saturday, February 13 at Mag’s 940, 940 Elysian Fields. Doors open at 5:30pm.
Only $10 per person for a wonderful evening of great music and friendship. Cake
and refreshments served! Cash bar!

                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
 

Membership & Donations

Becoming a member, or renewing a membership, is easy. Select Individual or
Family membership, then click on the membership button. If you would like to
donate, go to the About Us page.

Please select Individual or Family(2 or more at same address) memberships:

                          [Individual $25.00       ]
                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
 

FSM

[fsmbanner1]

 

What is Humanism?

Humanists reject superstitious beliefs.

Instead, we can make sense of the world using reason, experience and shared
values.

We can make the best of life by creating meaning and purpose for ourselves, and
choosing to take responsibility for our actions.

It is important to act morally towards others, not because of a divine
imperative, but because people have inherent dignity.

We have only one life, it is our responsibility to make it a good life, and to
live it well.

Famous Quotes

The worst tempered people I have ever met were those who knew that they were
wrong - David Letterman

Event Calendar

Looking for something to do? Check out our Calendar page for upcoming NOSHA
events.

NOSHA Archives

The Humanist Advocate

Read previous issues of The Humanist Advocate, the official newsletter for the
New Orleans Secular Humanist Association.

Proclamations

NOSHA has received several proclamations from the city of New Orleans. See
Archive, for more information.

Reviews

Check out the Review Archive, for reviews for books, movies, tv, web, and media
in general.

NOSHA produces a half-hour program, "The New Orleans Humanist Perspective,"
which airs on Cox Cable, New Orleans, Channel 76. See our Media page for more
detail.

NOSHA on Flickr

2014 New Orleans seafood and hamburger company Meetup

ricky-125 has added a photo to the pool:
2014 New Orleans seafood and hamburger company Meetup

(C) Copyright 1676 nosha.info

Contact Us

  • Google
  • Facebook
  • Meetup

Web design by cr

