`

 

The New Jersey Humanist Network is a vibrant and growing community of secular
humanists. Humanism is a progressive philosophy of life that, without theism
and other supernatural beliefs, affirms our ability and responsibility to lead
ethical lives of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of
humanity.  Please join us at any of our meetings which are always open to the
public.
[ul_blue_logo_03]
[               ]
[Search]
Home
About NJHN
News and Views
Lending Library
What is
Humanism?
Become a member
Camp Quest Fund
Donate to NJHN
Contact Us
Photos
Related
Organizations
  NJHN Stores   Amazon Store Cafe Press iGive
                                       
                                Upcoming Events

    Saturday, January 23, 2016 - 1:30 PM: David Silverman, President of
    American Atheists

    Postponed due to impending winter storm! This talk will be rescheduled for
    a date in the spring.

    Fighting god

     

    Guest speaker David Silverman is the author of a new book: Fighting God: An
    Atheist Manifesto for a Religious World.

This new book is a firebrand manifesto from one of the most recognizable faces
of atheism. In his book, David Silverman - a walking, talking atheist billboard
known for his appearances on Fox News - discusses the effectiveness, ethics and
impact of the in-your-face-atheist who refuses to be silent.

Fighting God is a provocative, unapologetic book that takes religion to task
and will give inspiration to non-believers and serve as the ultimate answer to
apologists.

David will be available to sign books after the Q&A.

 

 

 

     

     

     

    This meeting is free and open to the public. A Q&A session will follow the
    talk. Refreshments provided.

    After the meeting, everyone is welcome to join us for an early dinner at
    Ruby Tuesday.

    **NOTE: We collect nonperishable, unexpired food items for donation to the
    Franklin Twp Food Bank at every meeting. There are collection bins at the
    library where we can add our items.

Franklin Township Library
485 DeMott Lane
Somerset, NJ 08873
(map and directions)

Ruby Tuesday
250 Davidson Avenue
Somerset, NJ
(map and directions)

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

    Tuesday, February 2, 2016 - 7:00 PM: Monthly Dinner

    Come out for dinner and camaraderie with fellow humanists and atheists in
    your area! Always an interesting conversation and new participants are
    always welcome. If you're new, just tell the staff you're with the meetup
    group.

    If you know you're coming in advance, please RSVP for the event on Meetup
    or Facebook. Use one of the links to the right.

Omega Diner
1337 Route 1 South
North Brunswick, NJ
(map and directions)


Past Events

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                          [Are-you-good-without-god]
          NJCoR's billboard in Kearny, October 26 - November 22, 2009
                  NJ Turnpike western spur SB, just past 15W

[NJCOR]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Be good for goodness' sake
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


    Widespread intellectual and moral docility may be convenient for leaders in
    the short term, but it is suicidal for nations in the long term.  One of
    the criteria for national leadership should therefore be a talent for
    understanding, encouraging, and making constructive use of vigorous
    criticism.
    - Carl Sagan

The lifestance of Humanism—guided by reason, inspired by compassion, and
informed by experience—encourages us to live life well and fully. It evolved
through the ages and continues to develop through the efforts of thoughtful
people who recognize that values and ideals, however carefully wrought, are
subject to change as our knowledge and understandings advance.
- from Humanist Manifesto III


                                 [donate_red]
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


[button_gmu]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[ccmtblv2]

New Jersey Humanist Network Inc

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Visit our other NJHN pages

Join, leave a comment and get reminders of upcoming events!

                              NJHN Facebook Group

[small_meetup_njh]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Updates

Trying to raise children and looking for secular resources?  NJHN sponsors the
New Jersey Humanist Families Network.  Visit their page for more information.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[hcru]NJHN is a co-sponsor of the Humanist Community at Rutgers University.

More about HCRU here.

 

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Our What is Humanism? page is occasionally updated and expanded to add new
resources for our readers interested in learning about Humanism

