Pennsylvania Nonbelievers
Atheists, agnostics, nontheists, humanists and freethinkers
[Search              ]
 

  • Home
  • About
  • Contact
  • FAQ
  • Library
  • Volunteers
  • Atheist Map

Subscribe

Chambersburg Harrisburg Lancaster Lebanon York

December 2015 Lancaster Meeting Cancelled!

This is a reminder that the PAN Lancaster meeting, formerly scheduled for Wed.
Dec. 23, has been CANCELED.

The next regular meeting at Isaac’s will be on Wed. Jan. 27.

See you all in 2016!

December 20th, 2015 in Uncategorized | No Comments

Renew your membership today!

Hello everyone!

I would like to remind everyone that time has come again – Time to renew your
membership, or to start your membership for 2016! PA Nonbelievers memberships
run on the calendar year, so all current memberships expire on December 31,
2015.

If you would like to become a member of PA Nonbelievers, we now can take your
memberships directly online. Memberships run on the calendar year, so they
expire on December 31, 2015 for this year.

You can start your membership today at http://members.panonbelievers.org.

You can also use our familiar old form to print and send your membership in
through the postal service, if you prefer. We’ll be bringing copies to our
meetings over the next few months, or you can print out this form and mail it
in to:

PA Nonbelievers
PO Box 702
York, PA 17405

Your membership donation helps us continue to operate. It also gives you the
right to vote in our elections in the spring. I’ll be sending more information
out about that soon, but in order to qualify to vote you must have your
membership in by January 29th, 2015.

Thank you so much everyone for your continued support! Your membership helps us
continue to do the work we do on behalf of Atheists, Agnostics, and Humanists
in central Pennsylvania!

–
Brian Fields
President
PA Nonbelievers, Inc.

http://www.panonbelievers.org

October 8th, 2015 in Uncategorized | No Comments

Conference Wrap-up

Hello everyone!

Wanted to take a few minutes and share some final information from the 2015 PA
State Atheist/Humanist conference!

First, we are in the process of finalizing the videos from the conference.
Those will be online over the coming weeks. We have several wonderful pictures
of the weekend, which you can see here:

Friday night: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=
a.874362619317057.1073741828.355644091188915&type=3

Saturday: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=
a.874431155976870.1073741829.355644091188915&type=3

Sunday Morning: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=
a.874450835974902.1073741831.355644091188915&type=3

Atheists Fight Hunger: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=
a.874355232651129.1073741827.355644091188915&type=3

We’re excited to report that for the first year ever, we sold out our tickets
through Saturday (Our largest attendance day) – Over 250 attendees, a record
for the conference!

We want to thank everyone who came for helping make this our best conference
ever! Our speakers, our VIPs and attendees, our vendors, our sponsors, and
especially our volunteers! Without you all we could not have made this event
the success it was!

Last, but certainly not the least – the Atheists Fight Hunger project was a
success beyond anything I could have imagined. Our final numbers:

Approximately 80 volunteers from the Annual PA State Atheist/Humanist
Conference this weekend packed 30,300 meals. Over the last year, we managed to
raise a total of $7,575. AT THE EVENT, we raised $1,870.50 alone, just from our
volunteers who were there.

I cannot believe the privilege it’s been to be a part of this. Scott Rhoades
and I co-founded and have for the 4th year co-chaired this conference, and this
has been our most amazing year yet!

Thanks so much everyone for all of your help making this happen. I can’t even
properly express the gratitude I feel for it.

–
Brian Fields
President
PA Nonbelievers, Inc.

http://www.panonbelievers.org

October 8th, 2015 in Atheism, Atheist/Humanist Conference, Church / State
Separation, Fun, Get involved, Pennsylvania, Photos, Religion, Science,
Skepticism, Video | tags: #2015PASTAH, 2015, @pastahcon, Harrisburg, PA, PA
State Atheist Humanist Conference | No Comments

Become a member of Pennsylvania Nonbelievers today!

If you would like to become a member of PA Nonbelievers, we now can take your
memberships directly online. Memberships run on the calendar year, so they
expire on December 31, 2015 for this year.

You can start your membership today at http://members.panonbelievers.org

Your membership helps us continue to do the work we do on behalf of Atheists,
Agnostics, and Humanists in central Pennsylvania!

June 30th, 2015 in Activism, Atheism, Charity, Church / State Separation,
Creationism / Evolution, Fun, Get involved, Pennsylvania, Religion, Science,
Skepticism | tags: 2015, agnostics, Atheists, Calendar, Central Pennsylvania,
humanists, Memberships, Nonbelievers, Pennsylvania, Year | No Comments

Summer Solstice Party

It’s that time again, for our Summer Solstice Party!

Our solstice party will be on Sunday, June 21st, from 2 to 6pm at:

4360 North Sherman Street Extension, Mount Wolf, PA 17347

This is a pot luck picnic. Feel free to invite friends, neighbors, and anyone
interested in hanging out for a get-together with your friendly neighborhood
Atheists, Agnostics, and Humanists. Please plan to bring a dish to share with
everyone. If anyone is available to help set up, please let us know.

Please check out the event on Facebook, and you can register your dish here.

June 9th, 2015 in Atheism, Event Announcements, Fun | tags: 2015, June, PA
Nonbelievers, PAN, PAN Picnic, Party, Summer Solstice | No Comments

July 4th update

Because of July 4th, we will be cancelling the meetings in York on that day. We
will see you all on August 1st!

No other meetings or events are affected by this. Hope everyone has a great
holiday!

June 9th, 2015 in Activism, Atheism, Event Announcements | tags: 2015, July 4th
, PA, PA Nonbelievers, PAN Meetings, Pennsylvania, York | No Comments

DOGMA DEBATE: Live at Lebanon Valley College!

Pennsylvania Nonbelievers and The Institute for Interfaith Literacy and
Leadership present:

DOGMA DEBATE: Live at Lebanon Valley College!

WHEN: Sunday, May 3rd at 2pm
WHERE: Lebanon Valley College, Allan W. Mund College Center, Leedy Theater
HOST: David Smalley
TICKETS: $10

Get your tickets now here: http://dogmadebate.panonbelievers.org

We are pleased to announce this event, featuring guests we will be announcing
shortly.

Dogma Debate is a fast-paced talk radio show that averages 145,000 listeners
per month, and topped over 3 million podcast downloads. The topics range from
politics and religion to science and comedy, but it’s a favorite among people
of all ages and backgrounds. The show is known as a platform for liberal and
conservative believers to defend their faith and political views with
respectful challenges by those who disagree. It may upset you, it will make you
laugh, but most importantly, it will make you think.

David Smalley (@davidcsmalley) is a former Christian musician whose education
in psychology, sociology, and world religions, with a deep-dive study of
Christianity for more than 14 years, resulted in his atheism. He later became a
secular activist and avid speaker, writer, and radio host. David quickly grew
Dogma Debate from an idea, to an iHeartRadio show with millions of downloads.
He is the former Editor-in-Chief of both Secular World & American Atheist
magazines, the author of Baptized Atheist, and founder of AtheistAudiobooks.com
. He is most known for his respectful approach to believers, most recently
featured in the 2014 movie “My Week in Atheism”.

All tickets are will-call only, and will be available for you when you show
your ID at the door.

April 14th, 2015 in Atheism, Event Announcements, Fun, Get involved,
Pennsylvania, Religion, Science, Skepticism | tags: 2015, David Smalley, Dogma
Debate, Lebanon Valley College, May, PA Nonbelievers, Pennsylvania Nonbelievers
| No Comments

Join us at our Winter Solstice Party!

Date: 12/20/2014
Time: 4pm-8pm
Location:
York City Pretzel Company
39 W. Market St.
York, PA 17401

Join us for our 2014 Winter Solstice Party! We’ll be in the heart of York, PA,
at the brand new York City Pretzel Company – And we’ll have the store all to
ourselves for our private event! You don’t have to be a member to come –
Everyone who wants to spend time with like-minded atheists, agnostics and
humanists is welcome to join us!

We’ll also be collecting donations at the event for the Foundation Beyond
Belief and our Atheists Fight Hunger program. You can help us out by giving
cash or check to help these worthy causes. All donations will be split evenly
between the two programs.

Bring food, drink, alcohol, and any other refreshments for yourself and other
people to share. Please register at our Potluck page so that we don’t duplicate
items. Also don’t forget we will need paper plates/cups/silverware/etc. We will
have power available for crock-pots and other stuff. Feel free to contact us if
you have any questions at all.

Hope to see you there!

Brian Fields
President
PA Nonbelievers

December 6th, 2014 in Atheism, Charity, Event Announcements, Fun, Get involved,
Pennsylvania | tags: 2014, Atheists Fight Hunger, Foundation Beyond Belief,
Gathering, PA Nonbelievers, PAN, Party, Potluck, Winter Solstice | No Comments

Support #GivingTuesday! Feed the hungry!

Please help us support #GivingTuesday – Tuesday, December 2nd, 2014 – by
donating money to our campaign to feed the hungry!

From the #GivingTuesday website:

    We have a day for giving thanks. We have two for getting deals. Now, we
    have #GivingTuesday, a global day dedicated to giving back. On Tuesday,
    December 2, 2014, charities, families, businesses, community centers, and
    students around the world will come together for one common purpose: to
    celebrate generosity and to give.

You can participate by donating or sharing our link to raise money for the
Atheists Fight Hunger project. For every 25 cents you donate, you can feed one
person one meal. Please, help us as you are able to raise money to feed those
who need food.

Then at the 2015 PA State Atheist/Humanist conference on September 11th-13th,
we will band together and package those emails to deliver them to those that
need it the most. You can join us there and help us make a difference!

December 2nd, 2014 in Activism, Atheism, Atheist/Humanist Conference, Charity,
Get involved | tags: #AtheistsFightHunger, #GivingTuesday, 2015, @pastahcon,
atheistpa, Atheists, Charity, giving, holidays, hunger, hungry, PA State
Atheist/Humanist Conference, PAStAHCon 2015 | No Comments

Help feed the hungry!

embed(//funds.gofundme.com/Widgetflex.swf)

Pennsylvania Nonbelievers has been involved in running the PA State Atheist/
Humanist conference since 2012. At next year’s conference (2015), we would like
to organize a food-packing event to give to people who are hungry. We will be
working with a non-profit called End Hunger NE to organize a food packing event
to be held at the PAStAHCon in Harrisburg, PA on the weekend of September
11th-13th, 2015.

Each meal costs 25 cents. That’s it. For every 25 cents you donate, you can
feed one person one meal. We will then, at the conference, package those meals
we raise money for to deliver at local food banks, providing food for those who
need it. Please help however you can, and show everyone that atheists,
humanists, agnostics, skeptics and other nonbelievers DO care!

To donate, click here: http://www.gofundme.com/atheistsfighthunger

 
November 12th, 2014 in Atheism, Atheist/Humanist Conference, Charity, Get
involved, Pennsylvania | tags: 2015, agnostics, Atheist, Atheists, Conference,
Donate, feed, Harrisburg, humanists, hunger, PA, Pennsylvania, skeptics,
volunteer | No Comments
 ←Older    
                          [General Fund   ] [$25.00 ]
                PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
Become a member!

Help support Pennsylvania Nonbelievers! Become a member using our new online
application form. If you prefer to mail a check, you can download our
membership application for the 2016 calendar year and send it in today!

Support PAN!

Click this ad and buy from Amazon to help support our organization!

Support PAN!

Buy BeSecular stuff from here to earn PA Nonbelievers 50% of the profits:
                                 [besecular-]

Upcoming Events

Past events
This Month
 
[1609987_10]
Lancaster Meeting
January 27, 2016 . 6:30 pm
Isaac's Famous Grilled Sandwiches, 1559 Manheim Pike

RSS Forum Posts

  • Brian on Here is Practical Explanation about Next Life, Purpose of Human
    Life, philosophical/religious facts, theories etc. November 20, 2013
  • on Here is Practical Explanation about Next Life, Purpose of Human Life,
    philosophical/religious facts, theories etc. November 20, 2013
  • Brian on Here is Practical Explanation about Next Life, Purpose of Human
    Life, philosophical/religious facts, theories etc. November 20, 2013
  • on Here is Practical Explanation about Next Life, Purpose of Human Life,
    philosophical/religious facts, theories etc. November 20, 2013
  • Brian on Here is Practical Explanation about Next Life, Purpose of Human
    Life, philosophical/religious facts, theories etc. October 25, 2013

Recent Comments

  • Angela Stacy on Idiotic Camp Hill church sign
  • TommyNIK on PROTEST: Saturday, September 27th, in Bedford County, PA
  • Kelley Glenn on PROTEST: Saturday, September 27th, in Bedford County, PA
  • PsychoWrath on Atheist Map
  • Kenn on Protests at the Lebanon PAN Meeting

Categories

  • Activism
  • Advice
  • Atheism
  • Atheist/Humanist Conference
  • Audio
  • Books
  • Chambersburg Creche
  • Charity
  • Church / State Separation
  • Creationism / Evolution
  • East Hanover Elementary SYATP
  • Editorial
  • Event Announcements
  • Free Thought Forum
  • Fun
  • Gay Marriage
  • Get involved
  • Government
  • HR 1728
  • HR 535
  • Hypocrisy
  • Kids
  • News
  • PANViews
  • Pennsylvania
  • Photos
  • Press
  • Public School Religious Freedom Month
  • Reason Rally
  • Religion
  • Science
  • Skepticism
  • Uncategorized
  • Unusual behavior
  • Video
  • Visitor Submitted

Archives

  • December 2015
  • October 2015
  • June 2015
  • April 2015
  • December 2014
  • November 2014
  • September 2014
  • August 2014
  • June 2014
  • April 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • October 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • December 2012
  • November 2012
  • October 2012
  • August 2012
  • July 2012
  • May 2012
  • March 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • December 2011
  • November 2011
  • September 2011
  • August 2011
  • July 2011
  • June 2011
  • May 2011
  • April 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011
  • January 2011
  • December 2010
  • November 2010
  • September 2010
  • August 2010
  • July 2010
  • June 2010
  • May 2010
  • April 2010
  • March 2010
  • February 2010
  • January 2010
  • December 2009
  • November 2009
  • October 2009
  • September 2009
  • August 2009
  • July 2009
  • June 2009
  • May 2009
  • April 2009

Join In!

                              Register  |  Login

Copyright (C) 2016 by PA Nonbelievers, Inc.  All rights reserved.

