Sac City Freethinkers

Promoting free thought at City College

  • Home
  • Calendar
  • Meetings
  • Our Mission
  • Photos

We are now the SECULAR STUDENT ALLIANCE – SAC CITY COLLEGE CHAPTER

After 5 great and productive years as a student club at Sac City College, we
have decided it is time for a name change. The Freethinkers name has served us
well, and given us the opportunity to educate the college community on the
concept of free thought. But it often caused confusion and distraction as
well. 

So this Fall 2014 semester we will become the Secular Student Alliance –
Sacramento City College chapter (or just SSA-SCC for short). This was a point
of discussion last semester and the decision was made unanimously during our
planning meeting last week.

Since our inception we have been an affiliate of the national Secular Student
Alliance — the fantastic and very supportive organization of over 300 college
and high school student groups like ours. Aligning our club name with the
national organization will help us to demonstrate our solidarity with the many
other student groups of the same name throughout the state and beyond, as well
as allow us additional branding support from the SSA. Perhaps most importantly,
I think the new name will project to the City College community a more
inclusive and positive tone, and clearly communicate the purpose and values of
the club. 

We will no longer be maintaining this website. All of our online activity,
news, and event info will take place on our public Facebook Page and private
Facebook Group. Please join us there. 

August 12, 2014 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | Uncategorized | Leave a comment

Sex Positive Week of Fun and Education: Feb. 10 – 13

The Freethinkers are co-hosting a major event on the Sac City Campus this
February. We are working with the Queer / Straight Alliance, Sac City
Feminists, and the Sociology Club to promote Sex Positivity through 4 days of
events.

Please visit our event site and our event Facebook page for all the updated
info.

FB-page-cover_2

January 22, 2014 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | City College, Events, News |
Leave a comment

Our Next Meeting: Oct. 10

We will be meeting from 11am – 1pm to discuss hot topics and plan our big
Spring event.

Thursday, Oct. 31
BUS 236 (Business Bldg)

11am – 1pm

September 27, 2013 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | City College, Meetings |
Leave a comment

First Club Meeting of the Fall

we-are-all-atheists

We’re Baaaaaaaack!

Freethinkers, atheists, agnostics, humanists, naturalists and all other
open-minded skeptics of traditional mainstream religious beliefs… come join the
fun and help us plan for the next year.

We have some great ideas already in the works, and need all the help and active
members we can get.

Thursday, Sept. 5, Noon – 2pm

We will meet IN THE SCC QUAD, on the grass near the gazebo and City Cafe. Look
for the Ask An Atheist sign.

August 26, 2013 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | City College, Events, Meetings
| Leave a comment

 

skeptube-banner

What the hell is a SkepTube you may ask? Of course you would ask… because as
far as we know, we invented it and this is only the second year w’ve done it,
so how could you know what it is?

SkepTube is a 3-hour currated festival of video clips from a variety of online
sources addressing a variety of provocative and thoughtful topics. Videos will
be shown in 10-15 minute thematic blocks followed by short open audience
discussions. The schedule of themes is posted below. Audience members are
welcome come and go at any time during the event.

FEATURING VIRTUAL GUEST APPEARANCES* BY: Richard Dawkins, Ricky Gervais,
Lawrence Krouss, George Carlin, Christopher Hitchens, Julie Sweeney, Jonathan
Miller, Tim Minchen, Mr. Deity, Eugenie Scott, Sarah Silverman, Michael
Shermer, David Cross, Colin Blakemore, The Thinking Atheist, Bill Maher,
Stephen Cobert, Bill O’Rielly, XTC, The Insane Clown Posse, They Might Be
Giants, Randy Newman, Lewis Black, Eric Hovind, Ray Comfort & Kurt Cameron and
Many, Many more!!!

DISCUSSING COMPELLING TOPICS SUCH AS: Religion, Philosophy, Atheism, Evolution,
Creationism, Intelligent Design, Astronomy, Astrophysics, Existence, The Bible,
Theology, Cults, Politics, Sexuality, Morality, Ethics, and Much, Much More!

All worldviews and perspectives are welcome!

*Note: inclusion of named and noted guests does not imply an endorsement on
thier part. Virtual guests and topics may change without notice.

Please feel free to DOWNLOAD THIS FLYER and spread the word!

 

EVENT TOPIC SCHEDULE:

11:30–12:00   SKEPTICISM / CRITICAL THINKING  

12:00 – 12:25   SCIENCE  vs. IGNORANCE

12:25 – 12:40   “DUST THAT SINGS” (The meaning of life?)

12:40 – 1:00   RELIGION, pt. 1

1:00 – 1:15   RELIGION, pt. 2

1:15 – 1:35   ATHEISM

1:35 – 2:00   EVOLUTION vs. CREATIONISM

2:00 – 2:20   COMEDY BLOCK

2:20 – 2:30   FINALE: “Storm” by Tim Minchen

April 23, 2013 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | Atheism, City College, Events,
Religion, Science | Leave a comment

Club meeting this week…

Our official club meetings are now weekly!

We meet from 12:30-2pm every Wednesday in TEC-110 (Technology bldg, NW corner
of campus)

JOIN US!

April 1, 2013 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | City College, Events, Meetings |
Leave a comment

Spring Club Day

THURSDAY, FEB. 28
10AM – 2PM
SCC QUAD

373307_377310205700511_1033648232_nIt’s that time again!

We all sit at a table, laugh, talk to people, and try to get some new active
members, as well as sell some stuff for our club!

We need volunteers, stay as long as you can. Set up is at 10 am, we will wrap
up around 2 or so.
I need people who can commit, or if time is an issue please at least stop by!

If you are able to volunteer, please attend our Wed, 2/27 meeting, or just show
up at the table on Thursday!

February 26, 2013 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | City College, Events | Leave
a comment

WELCOME TO SPRING 2013!

soapbox

Our first meeting of the Spring semester, 2013. 

Be there, or we’ll assume you’ve been raptured up to heaven or joined a cult.

DATE: Wednesday, Feb. 13
TIME: 1:30pm – 3pm
PLACE: TEC-110 at the East end of the Technology Building (north edge of
campus, along 12th Ave, behind the Performing Arts Center)

Sorry if this does not fit your schedule, we may consider moving it to a
different time if needed, once we get rolling. This day and time was chosen
based on our Doodle survey:http://www.doodle.com/wsincvs233wbi4rs

January 29, 2013 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | Uncategorized | Leave a
comment

Our last event of the year (or maybe ever?)

Screen Shot 2012-12-04 at 8.51.10 AM

December 4, 2012 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | City College, Events, Religion
, Science | 3 Comments

The Salem Witch Trials & The Case Against Christ

Do you believe in witches? Why not?

What can the Salem Witch Trials tell us about the resurrection of Jesus Christ?

Thursday, November 29
5:30 – 7:30pm
Rodda North 258
Sacramento City College

Hundreds of millions of people believe that Jesus came back from the dead. CSU,
Sacramento Philosophy professor MATT MCCORMICK presents a decidedly unpopular
view —he forcefully argues that the central tenet of Christianity, the
resurrection of Jesus, is false.

In his recently published book, Atheism and the Case against Christ, he
undermines Christianity and theism at their foundations; provides a powerful
model for better critical reasoning; and builds a compelling case for atheism.
McCormick offers persuasive arguments that are accessible, thoughtful, and new.

The presentation will be followed with a lively Question & Answer session.

[doyoubeleiveinwitches]

November 12, 2012 Posted by saccityfreethinkers | Atheism, City College, Events
| Leave a comment

<< Previous Entries    

Our Mission

Uniting all Sacramento City College freethinkers (atheists, agnostics,
secularists, humanists, and other skeptics) and providing an opportunity to
socialize with like-minded individuals, question religious and theistic
beliefs, and promote the ideals of scientific and critical inquiry through
campus and community events.

Contact us at SacCityFreethinkers@gmail.com

The SCF is a proud affiliate
of the Secular Student Alliance.

ssa_logo[fb_logo]

 

 

 

 

  • WEEKLY MEETING!

    Fall 14

    EVERY WEEK
    Thursday, 11am
    Location TBA

    Check back!

  • Blogroll

      □ • American Atheists
      □ • Atheists and Other Freethinkers
      □ • Coalition of Reason
      □ • HAGSA.org
      □ • Proving The Negative
      □ • Richard Dawkins
      □ • Sacramento Freethinkers Atheists & Nonbelievers (FAN)
      □ • Top 30 Freethought Blogs
      □ • FFRF.org
      □ • PZ Myers' Pharyngula
  • Suggested Reading

    The God Delusion by Richard Dawkins

    The End of Faith by Sam Harris

    God Is Not Great by Christopher Hitchens

    Atheism and The Case Against Christ by Matt McCormick

    Atheist Universe by David Mills

    The Portable Atheist edited by Christopher Hitchens

    God: The Failed Hypothesis by Victor J. Stenger

    Godless by Dan Barker

    Irreligion by John Allen Paulos

    Breaking The Spell by Daniel Dennett

  • Suggested Viewing

    The God Who Wasn't There

    Letting Go of God

    Religulous

    The Four Horsemen

    Hitches Destroys God

  • Archives

      □ August 2014
      □ January 2014
      □ September 2013
      □ August 2013
      □ April 2013
      □ February 2013
      □ January 2013
      □ December 2012
      □ November 2012
      □ October 2012
      □ September 2012
      □ August 2012
      □ April 2012
      □ December 2011
      □ October 2011
      □ September 2011
      □ August 2011
      □ April 2011
      □ March 2011
      □ February 2011
      □ November 2010
      □ September 2010
      □ August 2010
      □ June 2010
      □ May 2010
      □ April 2010
      □ March 2010
      □ February 2010
      □ January 2010
      □ December 2009
      □ November 2009
      □ October 2009
      □ September 2009
      □ April 2009
      □ March 2009
  • SEARCH THIS SITE

    Search for: [                    ] [Search]

Site info

Sac City Freethinkers
The Andreas04 Theme. Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Follow

Follow “Sac City Freethinkers”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 415 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[b]
