  • About
  • Advertise
  • Books
  • Contact
  • Debate Handbook
  • History
  • Journeys
  • Best Sites

[search this site... ] [search_btn]
Discount Graphic Design & Printing for Atheist & Secular Groups

Atheism Resource

  • Home
  • Evolution
  • Psych / Soc
  • Videos
  • Bible
  • History
  • Science
  • Social Issues

Previous Next
The God Who Wasn’t There

Posted by Jared

The God Who Wasn’t There

  Dear Christian, I’m not there. I wasn’t in the operating room when your
mother had cancer, I wasn’t in the car when your best friend crashed into the
median, I wasn’t...

Read More
Why Atheists Align with Democrats

Posted by Adam

Why Atheists Align with Democrats

By: Adam Brown (Founder of AtheismResource.com) Yes, this is a long article…
but it has good research and is worth your time to read. Sorry, no TLDR – just
read it! The United States of...

Read More
The best argument against Christianity…is the story of Christianity.

Posted by Adam

The best argument against Christianity…is the story of Christianity.

This is a YouTube video from Theoretical Bullshit We think it’s one of the best
compilations of the things we find ridiculous, horrible, and utterly
unbelievable about Christianity. We hope...

Read More
The Borg is in my Church… resistance is futile!

Posted by Adam

The Borg is in my Church… resistance is futile!

Welcome “Melissa”, our newest writer. She plays in the hand bell choir at her
church, because she loves the art form and the ONLY place to express it is in
local churches.  She’s...

Read More
Pro Women’s Basketball Player Comes Out as an Atheist

Posted by Adam

Pro Women’s Basketball Player Comes Out as an Atheist

  I am often called a “Good Christian Woman.” Why does this bother me? I am not
Christian.   (Kristin Turk (Des Moines, Iowa/Lincoln) has a professional
contract to continue her...

Read More
Are We a Christian Nation?

Posted by Adam

Are We a Christian Nation?

Are We a Christian Nation?   Yes, and no.   Ever since Native Americans were
outnumbered by the white man, the United States has had a population whose
citizens were, and continue to be,...

Read More
“Hey, Christian, have you read the bible?” – a 15 year old atheist in a
Christian School speaks out!

Posted by Adam

“Hey, Christian, have you read the bible?” – a 15 year old atheist in a
Christian School speaks out!

Bio: Cassie Huye is a fifteen year old girl living in Baton Rouge, Louisiana
with her parents and two siblings. She attends a private Christian School in
Baton Rouge as a sophomore. Cassie aspires to...

Read More
Top 10 Myths About Evolution – with Downloadable PDF

Posted by Adam

Top 10 Myths About Evolution – with Downloadable PDF

If you have been looking for a simple, easy to follow quick guide to evolution…
we’ve got it. Our friends at the Skeptics Society gave us permission to reprint
this. HERE IS THE PDF...

Read More

  • The God Who Wasn’t There
  • Why Atheists Align with Democrats
  • The best argument against Christianity…is the story of Christianity.
  • The Borg is in my Church… resistance is futile!
  • Pro Women’s Basketball Player Comes Out as an Atheist
  • Are We a Christian Nation?
  • “Hey, Christian, have you read the bible?” – a 15 year old atheist in a
    Christian School speaks out!
  • Top 10 Myths About Evolution – with Downloadable PDF

Science

On eye witnesses testimony as evidence

On eye witnesses testimony as evidence

Posted by JT on 1-7-12

Science is better than religion

Science is better than religion

Posted by Adam on 12-14-11

The deep end of the intangible pool

The deep end of the intangible pool

Posted by Greg on 9-2-11

Explain science…musician!

Explain science…musician!

Posted by JT on 7-28-11

Top 10 Myths About Evolution – with Downloadable PDF

Top 10 Myths About Evolution – with Downloadable PDF

Posted by Adam on 1-6-11

More From Science

Social Issues

Dear Therapists: Check Your Bias, Not My Atheism

Posted by Tracie on 6-15-13

We Must Come Out

We Must Come Out

Posted by mattweaver on 5-1-13

Raising an Atheist Child

Raising an Atheist Child

Posted by Adam on 3-1-13

Texas Pastor Claims America Needs Ugandan-Like Leadership

Texas Pastor Claims America Needs Ugandan-Like Leadership

Posted by Jared on 2-22-13

More From Social Issues

Join us on Facebook

Most Recent Articles

Pseudoscience and the Atheist Community

Pseudoscience and the Atheist Community

Posted by Jared in Uncategorized | 1 comment

During my elementary years, my older sibling and I attended a Montessori school
that focused a great deal of its resources on creating scientifically minded
students. We weren’t given extensive lectures on...

Read More
De-Conversion “Double-Takes” & Rational Reminders

De-Conversion “Double-Takes” & Rational Reminders

Posted by Tracie in General Atheism, Journeys | 0 comments

  I used to be a Witch. I used to celebrate sabbats and esbats. I used to be in
a coven, and I used to work “magick.” That still feels weird for me to type,
even though I know that the beliefs I once held...

Read More
The God Who Wasn’t There

The God Who Wasn’t There

Posted by Jared in Bible, Featured, General Atheism | 119 comments

  Dear Christian, I’m not there. I wasn’t in the operating...

Read More
Pray – Why?

Pray – Why?

Posted by Susi Bocks in General Atheism, Psychology & Sociology | 32 comments

I can’t help it. Being an action driven person, I really think that...

Read More

Parents. The Anti-God

Posted by Greg in Uncategorized | 11 comments

I’ve been expecting you. My son Henry (he’ll be six soon) and I...

Read More

I Willingly Die Every Night…

Posted by Susi Bocks in Bible, General Atheism | 14 comments

Death is scary to many people, religious or not, and I’ve always...

Read More
The Atheist Civil War

The Atheist Civil War

Posted by Julia Larson in General Atheism | 33 comments

Being somewhat of a newcomer in the active atheist community, I have fresh
in...

Read More
The best argument against Christianity…is the story of Christianity.

The best argument against Christianity…is the story of Christianity.

Posted by Adam in Featured, General Atheism | 288 comments

This is a YouTube video from Theoretical Bullshit We think it’s one of...

Read More
<< Older Entries

Join Us

Atheism Resource on Facebook Atheism Resource RSS feed Atheism Resource email
subscription Atheism Resource on Twitter Atheism Videos on YouTube

Popular on Facebook

Popular Posts

762

What every atheist should say to god… if Judgment Day actually happens!

Posted by Adam on 12-31-10

558

“Hey, Christian, have you read the bible?” – a 15 year old atheist in a
Christian School speaks out!

Posted by Adam on 1-18-11

288

The best argument against Christianity…is the story of Christianity.

Posted by Adam on 2-27-12

187

The bible has never been proven wrong, eh?

Posted by JT on 12-18-10

117

Atheists don’t commit as much crime as the Religious do.

Posted by Adam on 12-9-10

All Things Atheism

Tags

Abortion Adam Amanda Brown American Atheists atheism Atheism Resource belief
bible coming out crime darrel ray Death debate Deconversion donate Don Severs
Faith Fear gay rights God Greg Lammers Heaven history Hope Jesus Journey
Journeys JT Katie's Blog Love Matt morality murder Myth Philosophy Politics
prayer Rachael religion Science sex Skepticon Susi Bocks torture video

Copyright AtheismResource.com 2010 - 2016 | Atheist web design & marketing by
Voss Visuals

  • About
  • Advertise
  • Books
  • Contact
  • Debate Handbook
  • History
  • Journeys
  • Best Sites

