Brown Freethought

logo

home

about

join us

events

officers

constitution

contact

blog

links

 

In Ratione Speramus

Brown Freethought is dedicated to promoting and defending reason, science and
freedom of inquiry in education, freethought, secular humanism, skepticism,
secularism, philosophical naturalism, rationalism, and atheism at Brown
University.

What Is Freethought?

Freethought is a worldview that beliefs about reality should be based in
rationality and science, not in tradition, authority, or dogma. Freethinkers
try to objectively look at claims before accepting or rejecting them. As
Bertrand Russell put it in "The Value of Free Thought":

What makes a freethinker is not his beliefs, but the way in which he holds
them. If he holds them because his elders told him they were true when he was
young, or if he holds them because if he did not he would be unhappy, his
thought is not free; but if he holds them because, after careful thought he
finds a balance of evidence in their favor, then his thought is free, however
odd his conclusions may seem.

Freethought as a movement dates back to the enlightenment of the Eighteenth
Century and the beginning of modern religious skepticism. It has continued
through the years and has helped to bring about our current secular
environment.

An umbrella term for this general movement is hard to find. There are many
different terms for branches within it: nontheism, scientific skepticism,
secular humanism, atheism, secularism, and agnosticism. Each branch focuses on
different issues and devising a catch-all name has been notoriously difficult.
A famous attempt to re-brand the movement as the Brights movement has more or
less failed. We therefore chose Freethought as our banner, because of it's
intellectual history and that all branches of the movements are built upon the
concept of freethought.

Valid XHTML 1.0 Strict Valid CSS!
