666

Christian Crimeline

Evolution of the Christian Curse

A brief history of this page: Originally compiled by "ARNOUME", the list was
found on the web by me, Buckster, who saved it to hard drive for easier
personal reference. When the page was found to be no longer available on the
web, I began to host and update it here, with the help of volunteer
contributing research editors, some of whom remain anonymous. The original
(ancient) HTML code was updated to a more modern CSS code on 05-20-08, making
it easier to read and to update as we go forward.

Editing: While going down through the list below, you will find that there are
a growing number of updates that include references and resources. You will
also find some corrections. The content on this page is a living document,
updated as new information becomes available, and it IS an ongoing effort to
make it as accurate as possible. Much credit for the recent updates goes to
contributing editor and author Hans H. Atrott, whom you will find cited often
as you go through the items in the list below. Many thanks to Hans for his
tireless research and efforts in this endeavor. If you would like to be a
contributing editor, please email buckcash@buckcash.com with your submission or
correction, along with resource links to establish it's credibility.

This is an overall jump-off point for further research, and to demonstrate a
basic premise: That Religion has been used by it's followers to perpetrate HUGE
NUMBERS of atrocities upon mankind that are nothing less than criminal. You are
encouraged to research individual items on the list that interest you, in order
to find out more and to establish their credibility. I believe strongly in not
taking anyone's word for anything, which is why I'm not a believer in religion
myself. I encourage others to not take someone's word either, including mine or
this page. So, understand this please:

We don't buy ANYTHING "Hook, Line and Sinker" here - that's just more bull from
a couple of theists who hate that this list exists.

Jesus' Bluff: "The Universal Scandal of the World"

Contributing editor Hans Atrott's new book is now available as of November,
2009. Click the image below to get your copy!Click here to get your copy today!

The Crimeline was last updated on: 02-05-10

FAIR USE NOTICE: This article may contain copyrighted material the use of which
may or may not have been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. This
material is being made available in efforts to advance the understanding of
environmental, political, human rights, economic, democratic, scientific,
social, and cultural, etc., issues under the 'fair use' clause as provided for
and in accordance with United States Copyright Law, Code 17 U.S.C. Section 107.
The material presented is distributed without profit to those who have
expressed an interest in receiving the included information for research,
comment, discussion and educational purposes by seeking out and/or visiting
this page. If you wish to use copyrighted material from this article for
purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from
the copyright owner.

Year: 0-36 Life of Christ

Alleged life of Christ: despite efficiency of Roman system no records exist of
his birth, trial or death, leading many to claim existence concocted.

Year: 33-36 ? Ministry of Christ

Alleged ministry of Christ: Jesus accused of "possession by evil spirits" (John
7:20; 10:20); this may explain evil nature of Christian followers over
centuries. Amendment: The allegation that Jesus' activity as itinerant preacher
(Christians' cant: "ministry") took three years is an unfounded claim for which
there is no evidence. According to early Christian desperado Irenaeus
(140-202), very early Christian sects, i.e. those who are very closed to the
times in which the itinerant preacher juggled his sorceries, taught that there
only was one year between Jesus' baptism and condemnation to death.[i] Source:
Irenaeus, Against the Heresies, 1:3:3, 2:20:1, 2:22:5, ed. by THE GNOSTIC
SOCIETY LIBRARY, on: Source Link, respectively, on: Source Link, last call on
09/22/2007, Capital letters adapted to English orthography. (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 36 Death of Christ

Alleged crucifixion of Christ: Christianity becomes first religion with
lawfully-convicted felon as god; this may explain criminal behavior of
Christian followers over centuries.

Year: 36-65 Oral tradition

Whole generation transpires before first account of Christ's life is written;
this raises questions over why it took so long for anyone to write it.

Year: 36-67 Peter

Peter allegedly establishes first church and spreads Christian faith from
Jerusalem to Rome where he is allegedly crucified in 67; no evidence proves he
existed.

Year: 36-65 Paul of Tarsus

Paul (Saul) of Tarsus allegedly orders destruction of Israel Christian church
before converting to Christianity; no evidence proves Paul existed.

Year: 40 Simon Peter murders a couple for greediness

(see: Ac 5:1-10). Outside the "New Testament" that are additional Christian
accounts on other murders committed by Peter.[i] Details about the murders of
Simon Peter see: Source Link, Source Link and Source Link. (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 48-62 Pauline books

Teachings of Jesus allegedly recorded by Paul despite claims by many scholars
that he could not possibly have met Christ.

Year: 48-9 First council

First Christian Council establishes circumcision and dietary laws borrowed from
Hebrew tradition.

Year: 50 Jesus' half-brother James

complains of the many crimes and the many murders which are lifestyle of the
followers of his half-brother (see: Jas 4:2). (Thanks to contributing editor
Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 64 Cornelius Tacitus

Roman historian Tacitus (55-120) condemns Christians as religion hated for its
abominable crimes. (See: Tacitus, Annales, book XV:44 - Latin original text,
electronically published, e. g. on: Source Link, last call on: 04/06/2008
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 64 Burning of Rome

New Entry: Christians commit an act of terror hitherto unseen in human history
by setting fire to Rome, the then capital of the world. They hereby burnt down
two third of the city of then two million inhabitants. By this conflagration,
Christians caused incomparably more losses of lives than Christianity had in
millennia. The abominable atrocity was that Christian desperadoes ridiculously
even today try giving the blame for that barbarity and abomination to the Roman
emperor. Compared to the present, it would be the equivalent if Islamic
terrorists had destroyed two-third of Manhattan and its inhabitants on 09/11/
2001, as opposed to 'just' the WTC. See: Gerhard J. BAUDY, Die Braende Roms.
Ein apokalyptisches Motiv in der antiken Historiographie, Hildesheim-Z rich-New
York (Georg Olms Verlag), 1991. TheologyWeb Campus " Theistic Metaphysics Dept.
" Apologetics 301 " Did the Christians burn Rome? - support for a theory, on:
Source Link last call on: 04/06/2008 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H.
Atrott)

Year: 65 Mark gospel

First "eyewitness" or "Q" account of Jesus written by gospel author called Mark
some 30 years after alleged death of Christ.

Year: 65-125 Key scriptures

Matthew, Luke, John, Revelations, Acts written by "eyewitnesses" of Christ
although most scholars claim books written up to 6 generations after Christ's
alleged death.

Year: 125-350 Bible assembled

Period during which most scholars agree first Bible "assembled".

Year: 166 Easter

Soter I (166-175) becomes first pope to suggest Christians should celebrate
Christ's feast day on Sunday (later Easter Sunday).

Year: 170 Irenaeus

First great theologian and Greek writer Irenaeus (140-202), Bishop of Lyons, is
accused of having adapted or forged John gospel. (Date Correction thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 170 Montanists

First heresy council against Montanist sect in Asia Minor.

Year: c180 Irenaeus List

Bishop Irenaeus compiles first list of biblical writings resembling today's New
Testament.

Year: c180 Celsus

Philosopher Celsus claims Christians "remodeled their gospel from its first
written form and reformed it so that they may be able to refute objections"
(see: Celsus in: Origen, Eight books of Origen on Celsus, book II:27,
electronically published on: Source Link, last call: 05/03/2008). (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c180 Virgin birth

Celsus finds doctrine of Incarnation and Crucifixion repugnant and denounces
gospel accounts of virgin birth as "fabricated". Celsus in: Origen, Eight books
of Origen contra Celsus, book I, chapter 32 on: Source Link , last call on 03/
01/2008 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c190 Women

St Clement of Alexandria (150-215) says "every woman should be filled with
shame by the thought that she is a woman".

Year: 190 Victor I

Christian council, under Victor I (189-199), makes Easter Sunday official day
of celebration for Christians in Rome.

Year: 190 Excommunication

Victor I excommunicates Eastern churches for not recognizing or observing Roman
Church's official Easter Sunday.

Year: c223 New Testament

Christians first apply term "New Testament" to early Bible according to church
father Tertullian (c160-225).

Year: c223 Mary prostitute

Tertullian (c160-225) cites rumor Jesus son of prostitute.

Year: c248 Birth fabricated

Church historian Origen (185-254) cites account Jesus fabricated virgin birth
and that Mary committed adultery with Roman soldier called Panthera. Verbatim:
"..when she (Mary) was pregnant she was turned out of doors by the carpenter to
whom she had been betrothed, as having been guilty of adultery, and that she
bore a child to a certain soldier named Panthera."[i] Origen, "Eight books of
Origen contra Celsus", I, 32, on: Source Link, last call 09/10/2007. Christian
shysters tried ridiculing this account by a Greek pun until in the 20th century
a "tombstone of a soldier was found in Bingerbrueck, Germany, inscribed:
Tiberius Julius Abdes Pantera of Sidon (ancient city on the Mediterranean coast
of Lebanon), aged 62, a soldier of 40 years' service, of the first cohort of
archers, lies here." [ii] M.D. Magee, Birth Narratives II, 2004 on: Source Link
(last call on 09/06/2007) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c248 Jesus magician

Origen (185-254) cites account Jesus worked as laborer in Egypt and learned
magic before claiming God title. Origen, Eight books of Origen contra Celsus,
book I, chapter 28 on: Source Link , last call on 03/01/2008 (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 250-4 Persecutions

Origen (185-254) claims few Christians died from Roman persecutions "and only
from time to time, and at intervals".

Year: 258 Forgeries

Cyprian (d 258), Bishop of Carthage, accuses Christian leaders of "faking his
letters" and other forgeries within church.

Year: 264 Forgeries

Pope Dionysius (260-268) accuses Christian leaders of "faking his own letters
just as they had changed the gospels".

Year: 275 Mithras

Powerful Persian Mithrasian religion almost fades completely in Rome as
Christian sects based on Mithraism, Manicheism and Gnosticism take root.

Year: 312 Constantine

Roman Emperor Constantine (d 337) converts to Christianity to bolster own
military power and unite vast and troubled Roman Empire.

Year: 312 Vision of Christ

Constantine claims Christ appeared to him in dream before battle of Milvian
Bridge: becomes church's first protector.

Year: c312 Official religion

Constantine makes Christianity official religion of Roman Empire: first blood
shed over doctrinal differences between Athanasian and Eusebian sects.

Year: c312 Pagans condemned

Christians condemn all pagan religions as demonic: Constantine authorizes
demolition of temples or conversion to Christian shrines. See: Eusebius, The
Life of the Blessed Emperor Constantine, Book 3, chapter 54-59, electronically
published on: Source Link, last call on: 03/28/2008 (Thanks to contributing
editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 314 Papal palace

Constantine gives Pope Miltiades (311-14) Christian church's first papal palace
as gift.

Year: 314 Artemis denounced

Council of Ancyra denounces worship of Greek nature and moon goddess, Artemis.

Year: 314 Abominable butcher

Constantine is described as "one of the most abominable butchers and fiends of
cruelty that ever lived" after executing own son and boiling wife alive.
Voltaire, Philosophical Dictionary, article Constantine, see: See: G W Foote &
J M Wheeler, Crimes of Christianity, London, Progressive Publishing Company,
1887, Chapter: 2, electronically published on: Source Link, last call on: 03/29
/2008 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 314 Pagan massacres

Constantine defends Christian massacre of pagans in Egypt and Palestine.

Year: 319 Clergy concessions

Constantine passes law excusing Christian clergy from paying taxes or serving
in army: law attracts new priests for wrong reasons.

Year: 319 Arius

Alexandrian priest Arius (250-336) poses serious threat to church's
tax-exemption status by publicly denouncing divinity of Christ.

Year: 321 Sunday holiday

Constantine orders Sunday to become public holiday in accordance with Old
Testament teachings.

Year: 325 Nicean Council

Constantine calls for Christendom's 250 bishops to attend First Nicean Council
to settle disputes over nature of Christ and other church doctrine.

Year: 325 Nicean Creed

Constantine institutes Nicean Creed to unify Christian Incarnation and
Resurrection beliefs; Divine Trinity doctrine is approved to attract
pluralistic pagans.

Year: 325 Jews accountable

Constantine insists on making Jews accountable for Jesus' death in political
move to attract more Romans into church.

Year: 326 Aphrodite

Constantine orders destruction of temples of Greek love goddess Aphrodite in
Jerusalem and Phoenicia.

Year: 331 Constantinople

Constantine becomes Rome's sole emperor and moves seat of Roman Empire to
Constantinople (formerly Byzantium).

Year: 314 Pagan treasures

Constantine steals treasures and statues from Greek pagan temples to decorate
Constantinople.

Year: 335 Magicians

Constantine orders death by crucifixion of magicians and soothsayers in Asia
Minor and Palestine.

Year: 336-61 Aryan schism

10,000 Arian Christians are killed for disagreeing with Nicean decision that
Jesus is divine being; Arians claim Christ is created being. (thanks to
JustSumner for the Correction from 1,000,000 to 10,000)

Year: 336 Asia minor

Constantine sacks pagan temples of Asia Minor and Palestine to furnish churches
of Constantinople.

Year: 337 Constantine dies

Constantine is baptized on his deathbed.

Year: 340 Christmas

Julius I sanctions December 25 as Christ's official birth date thereby quashing
Roman Feast of Saturnus among other pagan festivities.

Year: 341 Soothsayers

Emperor Flavius Julius Constantius orders execution or imprisonment of
soothsayers and gentiles.

Year: 346 Gentiles

Constantius launches persecutions against gentiles of Constantinople; famous
orator Libanius is condemned as "magician".

Year: 354 Temples closed

Constantius orders closure of all pagan temples in Christendom and that some
are profaned by being turned into brothels.

Year: 355 Bishops untried

Bishops become exempt from being tried in secular courts resulting in rampant
corruption after church becomes law unto itself. (See: G W Foote & J M Wheeler,
Crimes of Christianity, chapter: 1, London, 1887, electronically published on:
Source Link - 03/23/2008 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 356 Death penalty

Constantius orders death penalty for all forms of worship involving idolatry or
sacrifices.

Year: 357 Divination outlawed

Constantius bans all forms of divination, excluding astrology.

Year: 359 Death camps

Christianity's first death camp is established at Skythopolis, Syria; 1000s of
gentiles are exterminated over 30 year period.

Year: 363 Laodicea

Council of Laodicea names 26 New Testament books as "inspired word of God";
Book of Revelation is excluded.

Year: 364 Sabbath

Council of Laodicea decrees death for Christians who keep seventh day Sabbath.

Year: 364 Antioch library

Emperor Flavius Jovianus orders burning of Library of Antioch.

Year: 364 Imperial edicts

3 Imperial edicts order confiscation of all pagan temple properties and
punishment by death for participation in any form of pagan ritual.

Year: 365 Christian command.

Imperial edict forbids any gentile or non-Christian officer from commanding
Christian soldiers.

Year: 366-83 Damasus I

Damasus I (366-383) hires thugs to massacre rival Ursinians (Liberians).See:
Richard Baxter,Treatise on Episcopacy, p. 24, or: G W Foote & J M Wheeler,
Crimes of Christianity, London, Progessive Publishing Company, 1887, Chapter:
2, electronically published on: Source Link, last call on: 03/29/2008 (Thanks
to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c366-83 Heresy bull

Damasus I makes it heresy to question nature of Christ and other doctrinal
points as decreed at Nicea.

Year: 370 Gentiles persecuted

Emperor Valens orders widespread persecution of gentiles throughout Eastern
Europe.

Year: 370 Philosophers murdered

Philosopher Simonides is burned alive while philosopher Maximus is decapitated.

Year: 372 Hellenes exterminated

Emperor Valens orders extermination of Hellenes in Asia Minor.

Year: 372-444 Manichaeans

Emperor Valens orders extermination of Manichaean Christian sect for preaching
non-Nicean doctrines; numerous thousands persecuted over 70 year period.

Year: 380 Official religion

Emperor Flavius Theodosius declares Christianity official religion of Roman
Empire.

Year: 380 Illegal to disagree

Theodosius reinforces Damasus I's decree and makes it illegal for believers to
question church doctrine.

Year: c380 Unbelievers "insane"

Theodosius condemns unbelievers as "demented and insane" and orders they "be
smitten first by divine vengeance and secondly by retribution of our own
initiative".

Year: 381 Christ's divinity

Council of Theodosius at Constantinople declares Jesus had truly human soul.

Year: 381 Temples profaned

Christians turn Constantinople's Temple of Aphrodite into brothel and Temple of
Artemis into stables.

Year: 382 Hallelujah

Hallelu-jah "glory to Yahweh" introduced to Christian mass.

Year: 383 Latin gospels

Jerome (342-420) presents Pope Damasus I with new Latin gospels, claiming
"originals lost".

Year: c383 Sex

Jerome reinforces sexual repression by preaching that "a husband commits a sin
if he enjoys sex with his wife too much".

Year: 383 Adultery

Damasus I is convicted of adultery by 44 bishops but has case overthrown after
church patron Emperor Gratian intervenes.

Year: 385 Priscillian

Ascetic leader Priscillian and 6 followers are beheaded by bishops of Trier,
Germany, for doubting Trinity and Resurrection. (See: G W Foote & J M Wheeler
>> Crimes of Christianity , chapter: 2, on: Source Link, last call on: 03/29/
2008. (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 386 Pagan temples

Christians destroy pagan temples: "If (Christians) hear of a place with
something worth raping away, they immediately claim someone is making
sacrifices there".

Year: 388 Public discussion

Emperor Theodosius introduces law prohibiting discussion of religious doctrine
outside church.

Year: 389 Library destroyed

Great library of Alexandria, described as centre of Western Culture, is
destroyed by Christian mobs; 700,000 ancient rolls are burned.

Year: 389 Pagan calendars

Theodosius outlaws all non-Christian calendars.

Year: 391 Temple visits

Theodosius prohibits visits to pagan temples and even merely looking at pagan
statues becomes criminal offence. See: Milman's History of Christianity, vol.
iii., 64. Gibbon, Chap. xxviii or: G W Foote & J M Wheeler, Crimes of
Christianity, London, Progessive Publishing Company, 1887, Chapter: 2,
electronically published on: Source Link, last call on: 03/29/2008 (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 395 Paganism prohibited

Theodosius introduces law making paganism criminal offence and orders banning
of pagan events including Olympic Games. (See: G W Foote & J M Wheeler >>
Crimes of Christianity , chapter: 2, on: Source Link, last call on: 03/29/2008.
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 396 Paganism treasonable

Emperor Flavius Arcadius orders paganism to be treated as high treason; few
remaining priests are imprisoned.

Year: 397-399 Paganism destroyed

Emperor Arcadius orders destruction of almost all pagan temples.

Year: 398 Pagan books banned

Fourth Council of Carthage forbids bishops from reading pagan books.

Year: 398-403 Slavery

John Chrysostom, Bishop of Constantinople (398-403), quotes Titus 2:9-10 to
support slavery: "The slave should be resigned to his lot; "in obeying his
master he is obeying God".

Year: 405 Palestine

Chrysostom calls on wealthy Christian women to help fund his crusades
throughout Palestine.

Year: 408 St Augustine

St Augustine of Hippo (354-430) orders massacre of 100s of pagans at Calama,
Algeria, after his Christian conversion in 386.

Year: 413 Slavery

Augustine begins writing City of God where he claims: "slavery is now penal in
character and planned by that law which commands the preservation of the
natural order and forbids disturbance".

Year: 415 Hypatia

Cyril, Bishop of Alexandria (376-444), executes pagan philosopher Hypatia
(375-415) for being woman going against God's will by teaching men; Christian
mob parades her mutilated body through Alexandrian streets. See: Sue Toohey,
The important life & tragic death of Hypatia, by2003, on: Source Link , last
call. 04/01/2008 and also K.Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987, p. 19-25
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c415 Jews expelled

Cyril has all Jews expelled from Alexandria; North African pagan priests are
hunted down and crucified or burned alive.

Year: 416 Bithynia

Christian inquisitor Hypatius, "Sword of God", exterminates few remaining
gentiles of Bithynia.

Year: 416 Public offices

Edict introduced in Constantinople makes it illegal for non-Christians to hold
positions as judges, army officers or public employees.

Year: 418 Original Sin

African Bishop Alypius offers bribe of 80 Numidian stallions for church to
accept Augustine's doctrine of original sin into its teachings.

Year: c418 Damnation

Augustine's doctrine of original sin is accepted along with his teaching that
anyone who does not choose to follow Christ is damned for all eternity.

Year: 420-1100 Dark Ages

Church engineers complete control over education; reading and writing are
restricted only to potential priests and knowledge outside church is
suppressed.

Year: 420-1100 Religion rules

"There was a time when religion ruled the world; it is known as the Dark Ages"
- Ruth Hurmence Green (1915-81).

Year: 420-1100 Medicine

Advances in Greek and Roman medicine and hygiene are declared heretical; plague
sweeps Europe resulting in huge casualties.

Year: 420-1100 Technology

Roads, aqueducts, heating, indoor plumbing and other technology invented by
Greeks and Romans disappear as church power increases during Dark Ages.

Year: 420-1100 History

History is rewritten by church fathers claiming world is only 5000 years old.

Year: 420-1100 Science

Science is pushed back 2000 years; Pythagoras' idea earth revolves around sun
(600BC) is banned by church even when reintroduced by Copernicus in 1600s;
Aristarchus' heliocentric theory (300BC) is banned by church until reintroduced
by Galileo in 1600s.

Year: 429 Parthenon

Christians persecute pagans of Athens before sacking Temple of Athena
(Parthenon).

Year: 431 Mother Mary

Council of Ephesus decrees Mary may be officially worshiped as Mother of God.

Year: 431 Ireland

St Patrick (390-461) begins Christian mission in Ireland.

Year: 432-40 Sixtus III

Sixtus III (432-440) is charged with seducing nun but escapes death sentence by
telling biblical tale of woman caught in adultery.

Year: 435 Death threat

Law is introduced threatening heretics in Roman Empire with death.

Year: 435 Two religions

Pagan worship becomes illegal in Rome: only Christianity and Judaism are
permitted to exist; remaining pagan temples are destroyed or converted to
Christian churches.

Year: c435 Intermarriage

Intermarriage between Christian and Jew becomes illegal; women convicted of
crime are charged with adultery and sentenced to death.

Year: 440-450 Greek temples

Christian mobs destroy monuments, altars and temples of Athens, Olympia and
other Greek cities.

Year: 444 Jewish persecutions

Cyril, Bishop of Alexandria, orders expulsion of all Jews from Egypt.

Year: 447 Council of Toledo

First council of Toledo ratifies Devil as "a large black monstrous apparition
with horns on his head, cloven hoofs ... an immense phallus and sulphurous
smell".

Year: 448 Book burnings

Theodosius II (401-450) orders burning of all non-Christian books. Update:
Among others, the book of famous ancient Greek philosopher Porphyry 232/3-304,
"kata Christianos" (against the Christians) calling Christian gospels "no
reports of occurrences but sheer contrivances." (Thanks to contributing editor
Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 450 Resurrection

Resurrection of Christ described by author attributed to Mark is accepted into
Bible almost 400 years after time allegedly written.

Year: 450 200 gospels

Theodore of Cyrrhus claims there are at least 200 different gospels in his own
diocese; this raises questions concerning why Irenaeus chose only four.

Year: 451 Nature of Christ

Council of Chalcedon declares Jesus has two natures: one human, one divine.

Year: 451 Mary not mother

Nestorian sect led by Nestorius of Constantinople declares Mary not mother of
God.

Year: 484-519 Acacian schism

Eastern (Greek) Church breaks from Western (Roman) Church after denying divine
paternity of Christ.

Year: 486 Underground pagans

Pagans driven underground by Christians in Alexandria are flushed out, tortured
and executed.

Year: 491 Armenian schism

Armenian Church breaks from Eastern and Western churches.

Year: 496 Clovis

Clovis converts to Christianity and becomes first King of the Franks (West
Germans).

Year: c500 Franks

Estimated 500 Germanic tribes convert to Christianity under Frankish King
Clovis.

Year: c500-700 Powerful nation

Christian Franks become most powerful Christian nation in Europe.

Year: 500 Incense

Pagan concept of incense burning is introduced to Christian services.

Year: c500 Women

Christian philosopher Anicius Boethius (480-524) writes in The Consolation of
Philosophy that "woman is a temple built upon a sewer.

Year: c500 Council of Macon

Council of Macon votes on whether women have souls.

Year: 515 Compulsory baptism

Rite of baptism, stolen from several pagan religions, becomes mandatory in
Christian religion.

Year: 515 Zoara

Emperor Anastasius of Constantinople orders massacre of gentiles in Arabian
city of Zoara.

Year: 528 Divination

Emperor Justinianus orders execution of diviners by fire, crucifixion or
tearing to pieces by iron nails or wild beasts.

Year: 529 Philosophy

Justinian the Great closes Athens' famous 1000-year-old School of Philosophy,
declaring it paganistic and threatening to Christian thought.

Year: 532-577 Asia Minor

Inquisitor Ioannis Asiacus leads crusade against Asia Minor gentiles; 99
churches and 12 monasteries are built on sites of demolished pagan temples.

Year: 533 North Africa

North Africa is captured by Belisarius; becomes Roman Catholic province.

Year: 534-870 Malta

Malta becomes Roman Catholic province.

Year: 539-62 Persia

War between Roman Catholic Church and Persia.

Year: 540-94 Plague

Millions of people die during plague which sweeps northward from Egypt and
Syria; European population is halved and Roman Empire never recovers.

Year: 540-94 Plague terror

Church leaders claim plague is God's punishment for not obeying church
authority; thousands flock into churches in desperation to be "saved".

Year: 546 Constantinople gentiles

Inquisitor Ioannis Asiacus puts 100s of gentiles to death in Constantinople.

Year: 550 Eastern Bible

Eastern Bible is translated into medieval Greek resulting in much "smoothing
and conflation".

Year: 550 Wales

St David converts Wales to Christianity.

Year: 550 Crucifix

Ancient fertility symbol - cross/crucifix - becomes official Christian symbol.

Year: 555 Papal excommunication

Vigilius (537-55) becomes first pope excommunicated after conspiring with
Justinian and Theodora to kill Pope Silverius (536-37).

Year: 556 Antioch gentiles

Emperor Justinianus orders inquisitor Amantius to find, arrest, torture and
exterminate remaining gentiles at Antioch.

Year: 562-582 Greek gentiles

Christian inquisitors hunt down, arrest, torture and execute Greek gentiles
(Hellenes) across Europe.

Year: 580 Temple of Zeus

Members of Antioch Temple of Zeus sect are thrown to lions or crucified by
Christians before their bodies are dragged through Constantinople streets and
thrown in city dump.

Year: 583 New persecutions

Emperor Mauricius launches new persecutions against Greek gentiles.

Year: 587 Spain

Visigoths of Spain convert to Christianity.

Year: 589 Italy

Lombards of Italy convert to Christianity.

Year: 590-604 Gregory I

100s of patrons are deceived into purchasing expensive relics Gregory I
(590-604) claims belonged to saints; many scholars now claim these saints never
existed.

Year: 590 Grammar banned

Gregory I, or Gregory the Great, sends out order compelling bishops to desist
from "wicked labour" of teaching grammar and Latin to lay people.

Year: c590 Education banned

Gregory condemns education for all but clergy resulting in society remaining
illiterate for almost 1000 years.

Year: c590 Library burned

Gregory forbids laypeople from reading Bible and orders burning of Palatine
Apollo library so its secular literature would not distract religious.

Year: c590 Pagan conspiracies

Christian authorities launch new wave of torture and executions in response to
perceived pagan conspiracies in Eastern Europe.

Year: c590 Statues destroyed

Many ancient Roman statues, marbles and mosaics are destroyed or turned into
lime under Gregory the Great or used to adorn Christian churches and
cathedrals.

Year: c590-604 Enforced celibacy

Gregory I introduces celibacy edict to prevent property from passing from
church to possible wives, families or mistresses of clergy.

Year: c590 Babies murdered

6000 babies are found murdered in pond outside Gregory's Lateran palace after
celibacy edict is introduced by Gregory I.

Year: 594 Plague ends

Plague ends and church moves to dominate field of medicine; Christian monks are
taught "bleeding" techniques to prevent toxic imbalances and restore humors.

Year: 594+ Bleeding

Tens of thousands die each year by bleeding until practice ends in 16th
century.

Year: 596 Britain

St Augustine of Canterbury is sent to convert Britain to Christianity.

Year: 600 Ethelbert

Christianisation of England begins.

Year: 622-80 Monothelitism

Council of Constantinople condemns monothelitism as heretics for believing
there is only one will or nature in Christ.

Year: 625-38 Honorius I

Honorius I (625-638) becomes first heretic pope after Leo X accuses him of
teaching Christ as "divine only" amid church claims he was "divine and human".
Correction: It was Pope Leo II (not Leo X) enumerating him in a list of
heretics starting with Arius. (Everything else is correct). Amendment: This
even is very, very crucial of Catholic deceit and therefore mostly played down
by Catholic officials. Condemning a former pope as heretic means firstly that
at that time when Honorius became condemned as heretic and as long as he was,
there was no belief in infallibility of the popes. If the pope is infallible,
he cannot be a heretics but on this condition, those who call him heretic are
heretics. I.e. "infallibility of the pope" is a modern Catholic fabrication.
Secondly, this was a crucial issue of the first Vatican council, which enacted
"infallibility" of the popes. Giving the gist, Catholic council of Vaticanum I
said that Honorius was no heretic but only imprudently couched doctrines.
However, hereby the Catholic council worsened the problem. After Leo II until
the middle of the 11th century, i.e. for about 350 years, when being
inaugurated into their office at the graves of the apostles all popes had to
proclaim a credo condemning the heresies of Sergios, Pyrrhos, Paul and Peter of
Constantinople and that one of Honorius. Consequently, if "infallible" Honorius
I was not mistaken, then about 50 "infallible" popes were mistaken and if not
mistaken, then they were perjurers. (See: Ed. By Ernesto Grassi, Johannes
Haller, Das Papsttum - Idee und Wirklichkeit (The Papacy - Idea and Reality),
Reinbeck (rde Bd. 221/222) 1965, vo. 1, p. 249- 250). (Thanks to contributing
editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 626 Scotland

King Edwin of Northumbria founds Edinburgh and begins Christianization of
Scotland.

Year: 627-28 Persia

Christians under Emperor Heraclius defeat Persians at Ninevah.

Year: 628 Mecca

Arab prophet Mohammed (b c570) captures Mecca and writes to world rulers
explaining Islam.

Year: 629 Jerusalem

Heraclius recovers Jerusalem from Persians.

Year: 632 East Anglia

East Anglia is Christianized.

Year: 632 Islam

Mohammed establishes Islam as official Arab religion; rise of Muslims.

Year: 635-850 China

Nestorian mission to China.

Year: 635 Wessex

Wessex is Christianized.

Year: 636 Ireland

Southern Irish Church submits to Roman Catholicism.

Year: 637 Jerusalem conquered

Muslims conquer Jerusalem.

Year: 640 Documents burned

Christians destroy Gnostic Basilides, Porphyry's 36 volumes, writings of 27
mystery schools and 270,000 documents collected by Ptolemy Philadelphus. Update
: According to early Christian author Hippolytus of Rome (3rd century) ancient
Alexandrian philosopher Basilides (about 85 until 145) and his son Isidorus
said "that Matthias communicated to them secret discourses, which, I being
specially instructed, he heard from the Saviour." (Hippolytus of Rome, The
Refutation of All Heresies, [TRANSLATED BY THE REV. J. H. MACMAHON, M.A.],
Book: VII, Chapter: 8 - Source Link, 2001, last call on: 01/22/2008). According
to early Christian desperado Irenaeus (about 140 - 202) Christian "apostle"
Matthias told them that Jesus "did not himself suffer death, but Simon, a
certain man of Cyrene..." (Irenaeus, Against the Heresies, 1:24:6, on: Source
Link, last call 09/22/2007). Consequently, the Christians had "good case" for
burning all the books, in particular, of the Basilideans. The latter debunk
crucifixion of Jesus "Christ" and the Christianity's hardcore of "vicarious
suffering" and "vicarious atonement" as abominable deceit (canting shame and
disgrace of a death penalty convict). The knowledge that Jesus "Christ" did not
suffer and die on the cross but a stuntman of his still is known to Islamic
prophet Muhammad (see: Koran, Su 4:157). Muhammad lived from 570 - 632. He says
that someone was hanged on the cross who looked similar to Jesus but certainly
it was not Jesus who hanged (see: ibidem). The corresponding literature of the
Basilideans existed during the whole life of Muhammad. It is to assume that 8
years after Muhammad's death, the Christians burnt the books of Basilides in
order to get rid of their most vulnerable issue regarding the new rival
(Islam). (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 640-1380 English Bible

Period between destruction of Library of Alexandria and first complete English
translation of Bible.

Year: 661 Easter

Synod of Whitby sets date of Easter for Roman Catholic Church.

Year: 690 Bible translations

Earliest translation of parts of Bible into English vernacular.

Year: 694 Jewish enslavement

Fifth council of Toledo orders enslavement of Jews, their property confiscated
and children forcibly baptized. (See: K.H. Deschner, K. H.Deschner, Abermals
kraehte der Hahn, Stuttgart 1962, p. 445, see also: islamkristen, ibidem
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 700 Church splits

Western or Roman Church by 700 is divided into four political realms.

Year: c700 Spain

Spain is ruled by Christian Visigoths until their fall in 711-713 to Islamic
Moors.

Year: c700 England

England is ruled by Anglo-Saxons.

Year: c700 Gaul

Gaul is ruled by Franks.

Year: c700 Italy

Italy is ruled primarily by Lombards.

Year: 716-19 Germany

Mission to Germans is launched.

Year: 752 Donation of Constantine

Donation of Constantine, "religion's most spectacular forgery," is used by
Stephen II (752) to "prove" territorial and jurisdictional claims to Pepin.

Year: 782 Charlemagne

Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne (c742-814) beheads 4500 Saxon rebels in one
morning for refusing to convert to Christianity. See: William Manchester "A
World Lit Only by Fire- The Medieval Mind and The Renaissance". Little, Brown &
Company, 1992 , or on: http://dim.com/~randl/tinq.htm">Source Link last call
on: 03/11/2008 (See: K. H. Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987., p. 30,
mentioned also on: [islamkristen] Fwd: Christian crimes against humanity
throughout history, on: Source Link , last call on: 04/25/2008 (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 800 Universal Emperor

Pope Leo III (795-816) declares Charlemagne Universal Emperor.

Year: 850 Bible translations

King Alfred translates several Bible books into English vernacular.

Year: 904-11 Sergius III

Sergius III (904-911) murders predecessor Leo V (903) and establishes infamous
"papal pornocracy"; he is described as "the most wicked of men".

Year: 906 Flying witches

Church officially denies witches can fly although thousands later will be
consigned to flames based on charges they can.

Year: 931-35 John XI John

XI (931-935) develops reputation as "debauchee" who courted "beastly women" and
"sat in the Chair of Peter during its deepest humiliation".

Year: 942 Hungary

Hungary is Christianized.

Year: 955-66 John XII

John XII (955-966) develops reputation as murderer and adulterer; reign becomes
so dissolute that Lateran spoken of as brothel.

Year: 964 Benedict V

Benedict V (964) develops reputation as thief and adulterer; later described as
"the most iniquitous of all the monsters of ungodliness".

Year: 965-72 John XIII

John XIII (965-972) becomes adulterer hated by laypeople; turns Lateran into
stews before being murdered by husband who catches him in bed with wife.

Year: 966 Poland

Poland is Christianized.

Year: 973-4 Benedict VI

Benedict VI (973-974), born illegitimate son of monk, is strangled for his
wickedness after permitting women to be raped under his pontificate.

Year: 984-5 Boniface VII

Boniface VII (984-985) allegedly murders predecessor to ascend throne; is later
described as "horrid monster" who "in criminality, surpassed all the rest of
mankind".

Year: 988 Russia

Russia is Christianized.

Year: 999 Millennium

Millennium terror results in people donating money, houses and land to church
in what became "history's most spectacular giveaway".

Year: 1010 French Jews

Bishop of Limoges orders expulsion or execution of Jews from France refusing to
convert to Christianity. (See: K. H. Deschner, Abermals kraehte der Hahn,
Stuttgart 1962, p. 453 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1012-24 Benedict VIII

Benedict VIII (1012-24) assassinates predecessor to ascend throne; Victor III
(1086-87) claims he committed "rapes, murders and other unspeakable acts".

Year: 1022 Orleans

13 heretics are burned at Orleans by King Robert the Pius.

Year: 1032-48 Benedict IX

Benedict IX (1032-48) is described as "a demon from Hell disguised as a
priest"; allegedly hosts homosexual orgies, sodomises animals and "order
murders".

Year: 1045-6 Gregory VI

Gregory VI (1045-6) allegedly practices same occult magic which later sends
thousands to stake for similar activities.

Year: 1143-4 Celestine II

Celestine II (1143-4) is described as "brutal sadist" after having one Count
Jordan strapped naked to scalding iron chair and ordering red-hot crown to be
nailed to his head.

Year: c1049 Odo of Cluny

Odo (1030-97), Bishop of Bayeux, claims that "to embrace a woman is to embrace
a sack of manure".

Year: 1054 Church split

Split between Eastern and Western churches formalize; Western Church becomes
Catholic Church; Eastern Church becomes Orthodox Church.

Year: c1054 Orthodox condemned

Catholics consider Orthodox Christians affront to papal authority and condemn
them as "Satan's henchmen".

Year: 1073-85 Gregory VII

Gregory VII (1073-85) establishes reputation as "a brand of Hell" and "filthy
fornicator"; allegedly poisons predecessor Alexander II and 6 bishops.

Year: 1085 Toledo

King Alfonso VI of Castile takes Muslim city of Toledo, plundering its vast
treasures; tales of further Muslim riches create desires among Christian
leaders to ransack their lands.

Year: 1095-9 First Crusade

Urban II (1088-99) calls for European knights to march on Jerusalem under
Christian umbrella to wrest Holy Land from Turkish Muslims. Jews and
dark-skinned Christians also targets.

Year: 1096 People's Crusade

Catholic preacher Peter the Hermit (c1050-1115) leads 1000s of peasants in holy
war on Belgrade, chief city of Orthodox Church after Constantinople.

Year: 1096 Yugoslavia

Amid confused fighting, Peter the Hermit's peasant army accidentally slaughters
4,000 Christian residents of Zemun, Yugoslavia.

Year: 1096 Goose Crusade

Scores of German Jews are hacked or burned to death by Christian fanatics who
follow goose "blessed by God".

Year: 1096 Muslim slaughter

4,000,000 to 7,000,000 Muslims die as Peter the Hermit's peasants follow
Christian knights into Jerusalem; crusaders believe killing Muslims "good for
soul".

Year: 1096 Jewish slaughter

Estimated 12,000 Jews are slaughtered during first crusade; Historian Dagobert
Runes estimates 3,500,000 Jews are killed during seven Holy Wars. 1.)
(See:Kelsos/Islamkristen, ibidem, referring: S.Eidelberg, The Jews and the
Crusaders, Madison 1977) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1098 Antioch

Historian H Wollschl ger estimates 100,000 Muslims, including women and
children, were slaughtered by Christian crusaders at Turkish Antioch. (See:
H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten Wallfahrten gen Jerusalem, Zurich 1973, page
32-35) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1098 Marra

Historian H Wollschl ger estimates 1000s were slaughtered by Christian
crusaders at Maraat an-numan. (See: H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten
Wallfahrten gen Jerusalem, Zurich 1973, page 36) (Thanks to contributing editor
Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1099 Battle of Askalon

Historian H Wollschl ger estimates more than 200,000 were slaughtered "in the
name of Our Lord Jesus Christ". (See: H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten
Wallfahrten gen Jerusalem, Zurich 1973, page 45) (Thanks to contributing editor
Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1099 Jerusalem

Jerusalem taken by crusaders. Historian H Wollschl ger estimates more than
60,000 Jewish and Muslim men, women and children were slaughtered by Christians
in Jerusalem. (See: H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten Wallfahrten gen Jerusalem,
Zurich 1973, page 37-40) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1099 Jerusalem

Raymond of Aguilers describes Christian capture of Jerusalem: "One rode about
everywhere amid the corpses of men and horses". Nicetas Choniates says: "Even
the Saracens are merciful and kind compared to these men who bear the cross of
Christ on their shoulders". (See: H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten Wallfahrten
gen Jerusalem, Z rich 1973, p. 33) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H.
Atrott)

Year: 1141 Censorship

Catholic priest Peter Abelard is sentenced to life imprisonment for listing
church contradictions in book entitled Yes and No.

Year: 1146-8 Second Crusade

Pope Eugenius III (1145-53) calls for holy war on Muslims at Edessa; St Bernard
of Clairvaux declares: "The Christian glories in the death of the pagan because
thereby Christ himself is glorified".

Year: 1147 French Jews

Historian K Deschner estimates several hundred Jews were slain at Ham, Sully,
Carentan and Rameru in France.

Year: 1171 Blois, France

38 Jewish leaders in Blois, France, are burned to death in locked wooden shed
for refusing to convert to Christianity.

Year: 1180 Reginald de Chatillon

Christian Karakian ruler breaks 2-year peace treaty with King Saladin of Egypt
and Assyria (c1137-93) sparking outbreak of war against Franks.

Year: 1181 Inquisition procedures

Lucius III (1181-85) establishes procedures for Inquisition.

Year: 1187 Jerusalem recaptured

Saladin recaptures Jerusalem but unlike Christian crusaders of 1099, not one
Christian is harmed.

Year: 1187-92 Third Crusade

Pope Gregory VIII (1187) declares holy war on Muslims in Jerusalem as well as
on pagans, Cathars and Jews in Europe and England; many communities sacked and
destroyed.

Year: 1187-92 Stupid loss of life

Estimated 1,000,000 lives are lost during 5 year crusade at hands of people
historian E Gibbon describes as "the most stupid and savage refuse of people".

Year: 1191 Richard Lion Heart

3000 men, women and children are slaughtered outside Acre during third crusade;
stomachs are cut open in search for swallowed gems.

Year: 1191-8 Celestine III

Heresy crime wave is triggered after Celestine III permits marriage annulment
if either partner is proved heretic.

Year: 1198-1216 Innocent III

Innocent III declares "anyone who attempts to construe a personal view of God
which conflicts with church dogma must be burned without pity".

Year: c1200 Property seizure

Innocent III sanctions bull granting church ownership of all wealth and
property belonging to individuals convicted of heresy.

Year: 1200-4 Fourth Crusade

Catholic armies are sent to fight Muslims in Jerusalem but end up fighting
themselves; 1000s die as Catholics sack Orthodox Church cities of
Constantinople and Zara during crusade described as "total failure".

Year: 1204 Constantinople

Innocent III orders sack of Constantinople of which commentators said: "never
since the creation of the world had so much booty been taken from a city".

Year: c1204 Just punishment

Innocent III sees rape of Constantinople as just punishment for Orthodox
Church's refusal to submit to Roman Catholic Church.

Year: c1204 Jews

Innocent III orders Jews to wear distinctive clothing for easy identification;
during Passion Week Jews are refused sale of food in hope of starving them.

Year: 1206 Rosaries

Rosary is reportedly given to St Dominic by apparition of Mary.

Year: 1208-38 Albigenses

1,000,000 Albigensians (Cathars) perish in south of France after Innocent III
launches holy war described as one of history's most terrible campaigns.

Year: c1208 St Nazair

12,000 are slaughtered at Cathedral of St Nazair.

Year: c1208 Toulouse

10,000 are executed by Bishop Folque of Toulouse.

Year: c1208-9 Beziers (France)

20,000 Cathari are slaughtered by Catholic Church commanding legate Arnaud;
other chroniclers estimate between 60,000 and 100,000 deaths. (See:
H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten Wallfahrten gen Jerusalem, Z rich 1973, p.
179-181). (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1209 Carcassonne

Historian H Wollschl ger estimates 1000s were slain by Christian crusaders at
Carcassonne. See: H.Wollschlaeger: Die bewaffneten Wallfahrten gen Jerusalem, Z
 rich 1973, p. 181). (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1209 First English witch tortured

Agnes, wife of Odo, becomes first English witch charged with sorcery after
undergoing ordeal of grasping red-hot poker.

Year: 1210 Book banning

Pope Innocent III (1198-1216) issues bull banning reading of Aristotle in
Paris; another bull is issued in 1215. Addendum: Please refer to famous German
philosopher G.W.F. Hegel (1770-1831) "Lectures on History of Philosophy"
According to Hegel at instigation of the pope, a church synod in Paris in 1209
forbade reading and lecturing on the scriptures of Aristotle. A cardinal
(Robert Corceo) came to Paris in order to supervise if the university of Paris
abides by this prohibition. In 1231, pope Gregor issued another bull banning
reading the writings of Aristotle. (G.W.F. Hegel, Vorlesungen ueber die
Geschichte der Philosophie (Lectures on History of Philosophy), second part:
Philosophy of the Middle Ages, Leipzig 1971, Vo III, p. 92-93) (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1212 Children's Crusade

1000s of children die after they are sent to fight Muslims in belief they would
be empowered by God: most die or are sold into slavery during crusade described
as "great embarrassment" to church.

Year: 1213 England/Ireland

England and Ireland become papal fiefs.

Year: 1213 Peter the Wise

English hermit Peter the Wise is accused of treason and sentenced to death
after predicting death of King John.

Year: 1215 Heresy

Lateran Council decides on death penalty becoming Canon Law for all cases of
heresy. Update: Fourth Lateran Council: Canon 3 on Heresy 1215: Source Link,
reference last called up on: 02/21/2008. (Indeed, there is order that "secular
authorities.... (have) to exterminate ... all heretics"). (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1215 Magna Carta

King John grants charter at Runnymede recognizing rights of church, barons and
freemen.

Year: 1215 Spanish Muslims

Catholic Castilian and Aragonese armies unite to battle Turkish Muslims at Las
Navas de Tolosa, Spain.

Year: 1215 Dominicans

Dominican order established.

Year: 1216-27 Honorius III

Honorius III (1216-1227) allegedly writes one of history's most notorious black
magic books, Grimoire of Honorius the Great.

Year: 1217-22 Fifth Crusade

Pope Honorius III (1216-27) launches holy war on Egyptian Muslims which ends in
disaster for Christians; numerous lives are lost.

Year: 1227-41 Gregory IX

100,000 to 2,000,000 die over 500 years after Gregory establishes first of
three Holy Inquisitions in 1232.

Year: 1228-29 Sixth Crusade

Gregory IX (1227-41) declares holy war on Muslims and succeeds in reoccupying
Jerusalem as part of temporary peace treaty.

Year: 1231 Holy Office

Gregory IX (1227-1241) establishes Holy Office as separate tribunal independent
of bishops and prelates.

Year: 1231 Heretic burning

Gregory IX issues papal bull decreeing burning of heretics and other church
enemies as standard penalty.

Year: 1231 Rights denied

Holy Inquisition denies right of counsel and replaces common law tradition of
"innocent until proven guilty" with "guilty until proven innocent". Update:
Already the Fourth Lateran Council on Heresy in 1215 ruled that the "suspected"
have "prove their innocence" (see: "Fourth Lateran Council: Canon 3 on Heresy
1215: Source Link, reference last called up on: 02/21/2008.) (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1232 First Inquisition

Gregory appoints members of Dominican order to run Holy Inquisition.

Year: 1232+ Thousands die

35,534 individuals are burned during Inquisition; 18,637 more are burned in
effigy while 293,533 receive other Inquisitional punishments.

Year: c1232 Robert le Bourge

183 victims are sent to stake in single week by Robert le Bourge.

Year: c1232 Bernard Gui

930 victims have property confiscated, 307 are imprisoned and 42 are burned
under Bernard Gui.

Year: 1233 Toulouse

Inquisition is established in Toulouse.

Year: 1234 Altenesch, Germany

Church orders massacre of between 5,000 and 11,000 men, women and children at
Altenesch, Germany, for refusing to pay suffocating church taxes.

Year: 1235 Fulda, Germany

Historian K Deschner claims 34 Jewish men and women were slain by Christians at
Fulda, Germany.

Year: 1238 Aragon

Inquisition is established in Aragon.

Year: 1244 Council of Narbonne

Council of Norbonne decrees that all heresy sentences must include mandatory
flagellation.

Year: 1248-50 Seventh Crusade

Pope Innocent IV (1243-54) declares disastrous holy war on Egyptian Muslims
resulting in capture and imprisonment of St Louis IX of France (1214-70).

Year: 1252 Torture sanctioned

Innocent IV (1243-54) sanctions torture for extraction of confessions from
heretics.

Year: 1257-1267 English Jews

Historian K Deschner reports extermination of Jewish communities in London,
Canterbury, Northampton, Lincoln and Cambridge. . (See: : K. H. Deschner, Opus
Diaboli, Reinbek 1987., p. 41, also listed in Islamkristen, ibidem (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1260 Shroud of Turin

Date Shroud of Turin is forged according to 1988 study.

Year: 1262 Bloodshed absolved

Inquisitional torturers are granted authority to absolve each other from
bloodshed by blaming Devil for claiming victims' souls.

Year: 1271-95 Marco Polo

Famous Venetian merchant (1254-1324) travels overland to China.

Year: 1272 Thinking

Gregory X (1271-76) issues bull banning discussion of any theological matter
outside church.

Year: 1272 Thomas Aquinas

Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274) publishes Summa Theologica which lays foundations
for witchcraft trials by claiming men and women can have sexual intercourse
with demons.

Year: c1272 Women persecuted

Aquinas promotes gender persecution by describing women as "God's mistake":
"Nothing defective should have been produced in the first establishment of
things; so women ought not to have been produced then".

Year: 1275 First witch burning

Angele, Lady of Labarthe, France, becomes first woman burned for witchcraft
after Toulouse Inquisition convicts her of eating babies and having intercourse
with Devil.

Year: 1275-1894 Witch burnings

Estimated 9,000,000 witches, mostly women, are burned by Catholics and
Protestants until 1894 when last European witch is executed.

Year: 1276 First Dominican pope

Innocent V becomes first Dominican pope.

Year: 1278 Bishop of Bayeux

Peter, Bishop of Bayeux, France, and his nephew are tried for using sorcery
against Philip III.

Year: 1279 Kublai

Khan Kublai Khan.

Year: 1285 Munich

180 Jews are burned in Munich after rumor spreads that Christian child was bled
to death in synagogue.

Year: 1290 Polish Jews

Historian K Deschner estimates 10,000 Jews were slaughtered my marauding
Christians in Bohemia. See: K.Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987, p 41.
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1291 Crusades end

Muslims recapture last Christian stronghold, Acre, in retaliation for Richard's
massacre century earlier.

Year: 1294-1303 Boniface VIII

Boniface VIII (1294-1303) is accused of murder, rape, simony, heresy, atheism
and homosexuality; pontificate is described as "one record of evil".

Year: 1294 Bern

All Jews in Bern, Switzerland are killed or expelled amid claims they had
ritually sacrificed Christian children.

Year: 1294-1368 China

Catholicism is established in China.

Year: 1295-1303 Boniface VIII

Boniface VIII (1295-1303) declares every creature is subject to authority of
pope. Update: "We declare, say, define, and pronounce that it is absolutely
necessary for the salvation of every human creature to be subject to the Roman
pontiff" (BULL "UNAM SANCTAM", 1302). Reference: Source Link (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1297 Palestrina

6,000 citizens of Palestrina are slaughtered after Boniface VIII orders papal
troops to kill all inhabitants of town belonging to rival family.

Year: 1298 Nuremburg

628 Jews are killed after Nuremburg priest spreads story that Jews drove nails
through communion hosts, "thereby crucifying Christ again".

Year: 1298 Nuremburg

Christian Bavarian knight Rindfleisch destroys 146 Jewish communities in 6
months after hearing rumours communion hosts "had been tortured".

Year: 1300 Apostolicals

Gerhard Sagarellus of Parma is burned at stake for founding heretical
Apostolical sect.

Year: 1305-78 Avignon papacy

Popes move from Rome to Avignon, France, causing Great Schism from 1378 to
1415, in which first two then three popes claimed Throne of Peter.

Year: 1305-14 Clement V

Clement V (1305-14) earns reputation as nepotist and pope who helped French
King Philip the Fair to seize wealth of Knights Templars on trumped-up charges.

Year: 1307 Apostolicals

Bishop of Milan orders Dolcino, successor to Gerhard Sagarellas, to be burned
along with remaining members of Apostolical sect.

Year: 1308 Bishop of Troyes

Guichard, Bishop of Troyes, France, is charged with using magic against Philip
le Bel and other aristocrats.

Year: 1309 Avignon

Papacy is exiled to Avignon, France.

Year: 1310 Knights Templar

54 knights are burned by Clement V (1305-14) who later declares he had "no
sufficient reason to condemn them".

Year: 1314 Jacques de Molay

Jacques de Molay, Grand Master of Knights Templar, is burned alive in Paris.

Year: 1314 Alips de Mons

Alips de Mons and various associates are accused in France of using image magic
against Louis X.

Year: 1316-34 John XXII

John XXII (1316-1334) ascends papal throne to become world's richest man and
first pontiff to promote theory of witchcraft.

Year: 1318 Dead heretics

John XXII sanctions bull allowing heresy charges to be brought against dead
people.

Year: 1320 Black arts

John XXII instructs French Inquisition to confiscate all property belonging to
blasphemers or dabblers in black arts.

Year: 1321 Dante

Dante's Divine Comedy is published which places two popes in Hell - Boniface
VIII and Nicholas III - along with numerous cardinals.

Year: 1324 Kilkenny, Ireland

Irish maid Petronilla de Midia (or Meath), of Kilkenny, becomes first witch
burned at stake in Ireland after Bishop of Ossory accuses her of heresies and
occult practices.

Year: 1326 Property heresy

John XXII sanctions Cum inter nonnullos bull declaring it heresy to suggest
Jesus and his apostles owned no property.

Year: 1326 Witchcraft reality

John XXII issues bull emphasizing reality of witchcraft and denouncing witches
as enemies of Christianity.

Year: 1327 Meister Eckhart

German mystic Meister Eckhart (1260-1327) dies heretic after claiming "when the
soul recognizes the Kingdom, there is no further need for preaching or
instruction".

Year: 1334-42 Benedict XII

Former inquisitor Benedict XII (1334-1342) is described as "a Nero" who turned
papal palace into "a sewer where is gathered all the filth of the world".

Year: 1335 Toulouse

Anne-Marie de Georgel and Catherine Delort are convicted by Toulouse
Inquisition of being seduced by Devil, traveling by magic, eating babies and
working evil.

Year: 1337 Deggendorf, Germany

Entire Jewish population of Deggendorf, Germany, is burned after stories spread
they had defiled communion hosts. (See: K. H. Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek
1987, p. 41 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1337 Bavarian Jews

Jewish persecution spreads to Bavaria, Austria and Poland where 51 Jewish towns
are attacked.

Year: 1342-52 Clement VI

Clement VI (1342-52) is described as "an ecclesiastical Dionysus" who cavorted
with mistresses on ermine bedspreads as Black Death swept Europe.

Year: 1347-50 Bubonic Plague

27,000,000 die during Bubonic Plague also called "The Death" which many
Christians claim Jews started.

Year: 1347-50 Jews killed

18,600 Jews are killed in 350 separate massacres by Christians believing Jews
had started Bubonic Plague. (see: Karl Heinz Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek
1987, p. 42) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c1347 Bavaria

10,000 Jews are slaughtered after Christian mobs wielding pitchforks and
sickles slash through 80 Jewish communities in Bavaria.

Year: c1347-8 Basel, Switzerland

600 Jews are burned as well-poisoners and 140 children are baptized into
Christian families at Basel, Switzerland. (see: Karl Heinz Deschner, Opus
Diaboli, Reinbek 1987, p. 41) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: c1347 Brussels

600 Jews are massacred after Catholic flagellants march through Brussels.

Year: 1348 Strasbourg, France

2000 Jews are herded into large wooden barn and burned after Christians accuse
them of starting Bubonic Plague. (see: Karl Heinz Deschner, Opus Diaboli,
Reinbek 1987, p. 41) (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1349 German Jews

More Jews are murdered, mostly burned alive, in single year than Christians
persecuted by Romans over 200 years. Historian K Deschner reports 350 German
Jewish communities attacked. See: K.H. Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987, p.
41 - 42 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1349 Mainz

6000 Jews are massacred in single day by Christians claiming Jews started
Bubonic Plague.

Year: 1349 Frankfurt

Scores of Jews are slaughtered after Catholic flagellants march through
Frankfurt.

Year: 1367 Mortuary tax

Church introduces mortuary tax or "succession duty" entitling it to one-third
of deceased's estate.

Year: 1378-1417 Great Schism

Two popes reign during Great Schism period: one in Rome, one in Avignon; they
fight over ideology, practices, politics and leadership.

Year: 1370 Brussels

100 Jews are burned and 500 "mutilated until dead" after claims unnamed Jew
broke communion wafer.

Year: 1375 Cessna

2500-5000 inhabitants of Cessna are massacred under future Clement VII for
revolting against papal authority; women are raped and children ransomed.

Year: 1380 John Wycliffe

John Wycliffe (1330-1384) supervises English translation of Bible but is
condemned after he claims papal authority is ill-founded in Scripture.

Year: 1384 Lollards

John Wycliffe's followers, called Lollards, are captured and either locked in
stocks or burned at stake.

Year: 1389-1404 Boniface IX

Boniface IX (1389-1404) builds reputation as nepotist and murderer who sold
papal offices, indulgences and canonizations to highest bidders.

Year: 1389 Prague Jews

Historian K Deschner estimates 3000 Jews were slaughtered by Christians in
Prague. ( See: K.Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987, p 42). (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1391 Seville Jews

Archbishop Martinez of Seville launches Holy War on Jews resulting in 4000
lives lost; 25,000 surviving Jews sold into slavery where archbishop forces
those aged over 10 to wear identification badges. (See: K. H. Deschner,
Abermals kraehte der Hahn, Stuttgart 1962, p. 454). (Thanks to contributing
editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1391 Jehenne de Brigue

Jehenne de Brigue is burned alive in Paris pig market after using charms for
healing and neglecting to say Paternoster on Sundays.

Year: 1391 Paris witch trial

Macette Ruilly is burned alive in Paris pig market after allegedly bewitching
her husband so she could conduct affair with local curate.

Year: 1400 Death duty

Church decrees mortal sin not to leave at least 10 per cent of one's estate to
church in will.

Year: 1408 Bible translations

Council of Oxford forbids translations of Scriptures into vernacular unless
approved by Church.

Year: 1414 Council of Constance

John XXIII (1410-15) is accused of 70 crimes at Council of Constance and is
deposed for adultery, incest, atheism and murdering predecessor Alexander V.

Year: 1415 John Huss

Dr John Huss and disciple Jerome are burned alive for denouncing church
immorality, corruption and sale of indulgences.

Year: 1418 Papal Schism ends

Papacy continues in Rome.

Year: 1428-50 Dauphine Trials

110 women and 57 men are burned alive during witchcraft trials spanning 20
years in Dauphine, France.

Year: 1431 Joan of Arc

Joan of Arc (1412-31) is burned alive for heresy at Rouen after claiming God
told her to save France from English invaders.

Year: 1431-67 Vlad Dracula

Vlad "The Impaler", described as Eastern Europe's greatest Christian defender,
slaughters 200,000 people, many by impalement, during 3 reigns.

Year: 1440 Gilles de Rais

French aristocrat Gilles de Rais (1904-40) is executed after confessing to
charges concocted by church leaders bent on seizing his vast wealth.

Year: 1441 Duchess of Gloucester

English aristocrat Eleanor Cobham, Duchess of Gloucester, is sentenced to life
imprisonment after being accused of using witchcraft to destroy King.

Year: 1441 Roger Bolingbroke

Oxford scholar Roger Bolingbroke is hanged, drawn and quartered after being
accused of using sorcery to destroy King.

Year: 1447-55 Nicholas V

First Renaissance pope.

Year: c1450s Firearms

Use of artillery and other firearms begins in Europe and Middle East.

Year: 1450-1600 Witch burnings

30,000 people are burned as witches by Inquisition between 1450 and 1600.

Year: 1450-1750 Witch burnings

200,000 or more individuals are burned as witches in Europe and America between
1450 and 1750.

Year: 1450+ Germany

100,000 individuals are burned by Protestants and Catholics in Germany where
more trials occur than in any other European country.

Year: 1450+ Catholic burnings

30,000 individuals are burned during Catholic Inquisition.

Year: 1450+ Scotland

4400 are burned in Protestant Scotland.

Year: 1450+ England

1000 are burned in Protestant England.

Year: 1452 Nicholas Jacquier

Dominican inquisitor Nicholas Jacquier (b 1402) confirms witchcraft as heresy
in Flail Against the Heresy of Witchcraft thereby justifying European witch
hunts.

Year: 1453 Gutenberg Bible

First Bible printed using moveable type; new technology permits church and
inquisitors to spread their poison more easily.

Year: 1453 Constantinople

After years of fighting between Catholic and Orthodox Christians,
Constantinople finally falls to Turkish Muslims who rename it Istanbul;
Byzantine Empire ends.

Year: 1453 Breslau

41 Jews are burned to death by Catholics claiming unnamed Jewish woman had
stabbed communion wafer.

Year: 1455-62 Dracula

100,000 Muslims are slaughtered by Christian crusader Vlad Dracula (1431-1467)
in his attempt to defend Christian Europe from Ottoman Turkish Muslims.

Year: 1456 Battle of Belgrade

Christians slaughter 80,000 Turkish Muslims during Battle of Belgrade. (See: K.
H. Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987. p. 235 (Thanks to contributing editor
Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1458-64 Pius II

Pius II (1458-64) builds reputation as former pornographic writer who indulged
in total sexual freedom and "gloried in own disorders".

Year: 1459-60 First witchhunt

5 individuals are tortured, publicly paraded then burned alive at stake in
Arras, France, during Catholic Church's first organized witch hunt.

Year: 1460 Dracula

40,000 men and women are killed, many by impalement, after Christian crusader
Vlad Dracula (1431-1467) destroys town of Buda, Romania.

Year: 1464-71 Paul II

Paul II (1464-71) earns reputation as worst Renaissance pope who allegedly dies
of heart attack while being sodomised by boy lover.

Year: 1471-84 Sixtus IV

Sixtus IV earns reputation as incestuous, gay pope who "embodied the utmost
possible concentration of human wickedness".

Year: 1472 Spanish Inquisition

1000s of Jews, Muslims and Protestants are cruelly murdered after Sixtus IV
establishes Spanish Inquisition in 1472.

Year: 1492 Granada

Catholic Castilian and Aragonese armies unite to battle Turkish Muslims at
Granada, Spain.

Year: 1472-84 Portugal

184 are burned alive during Inquisition in Portugal; up to 1500 penitents per
time are punished during public auto da fe "act of faith" festivals.

Year: 1475 Trent, Italy

Nearly all Jews in Trent, Italy, are tortured, tried and burned amid unproved
claims they had ritually sacrificed Christian child named Simon.

Year: 1478 Secret Jews

Sixtus IV authorizes King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella to revive Inquisition to
flush out Jews and Muslims.

Year: 1481-1517 Spanish Inquisition

13,000 are burned in 36 years during Spanish Inquisition; 17,000 are burned in
effigy and 290,000 tortured, imprisoned or bankrupted.

Year: 1481-1517 Mass burnings

2,000 are burned alive and 1000s brutally tortured at auto da fe "act of faith"
festivals in Spain.

Year: 1482 African slaves

White traders begin transporting black slaves from Africa to Christian world.

Year: 1483-96 Tomas Torquemada

1000s suffered excruciating agonies at hands of Tomas Torquemada, Spain's most
notorious inquisitor, who was allegedly responsible for 10,220 burnings.

Year: 1484 Witchcraft bull

Innocent VIII (1484-1492) issues Summis desiderantes affectibus bull triggering
witch hunting mania lasting 300 years.

Year: 1484 Witchcraft mania

Summis desiderantes affectibus bull establishes reality of witchcraft by
claiming witches can fly, change shape and have intercourse with Devil.

Year: 1484-92 Age of Bastards

Innocent VIII earns reputation as ruling during "Golden Age of Bastards" after
siring some 100 illegitimate children, all supported by church funds.

Year: 1484+ Alsace

5000 are burned as witches in province of Alsace after Innocent VIII issues
Summis desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484+ Bavaria

2000 are burned as witches in Bavaria after Innocent VIII issues Summis
desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484+ Bamberg

900 are burned as witches in Bamberg after Innocent VIII issues Summis
desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484+ Vaud

311 are burned as witches in Vaud after Innocent VIII issues Summis
desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484+ Grenoble

167 are burned as witches in Grenoble after Innocent VIII issues Summis
desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484+ Wurzburg

157 are burned as witches in Wurzburg after Innocent VIII issues Summis
desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484+ Saxony

133 are burned as witches in single day in Saxony after Innocent VIII issues
Summis desiderantes affectibus bull.

Year: 1484 Italy

41 are put to death at Como, Italy, within months of Summis desiderantes
affectibus being issued.

Year: 1485 Cumanus

41 women are burned as witches under inquisitor Cumanus in 1485.

Year: 1485 Piedmont, Italy

100 are executed as witches in Piedmont valley, Italy.

Year: 1486 Heinrich Kramer

Dominican inquisitor Heinrich Kramer (1430-1505) co-authors Malleus
Maleficarium (Witches' Hammer) with Jakob Sprenger after being expelled for
persecuting witches at Tyrol.

Year: 1486 Malleus Maleficarum

1000s are tried as witches after Malleus Maleficarum becomes official handbook
of Inquisition.

Year: 1486 Women

Malleus Maleficarum claims unbelief in witchcraft as heresy and women are more
likely to become witches than men "because the female sex is more concerned
with things of the flesh than men".

Year: 1487 Waldensians

Pope Innocent VIII declares armed crusade against Waldensians in Savoy region
of France.

Year: 1487+ 150 male and female

members of Waldensian sect are cruelly butchered in one of many French Savoy
towns obliterated by papal soldiers.

Year: 1490s Church spies

Juan de Mariana reports people "were deprived of the liberty to hear and talk
freely, since in all cities, towns and villages there were persons placed to
give information of what went on. This was considered by some the most wretched
slavery and equal to death".

Year: 1492 Spanish Moors

Moors are defeated by Christian armies in Spain; last Spanish Muslims are
driven out. Correction: It is right that the Muslims in Southern Spain became
defeated in 1492. However, the last Spanish Muslims became expelled in the
years from 1609 until 1611. "Between 1609 and 1611 the last 275,000 Moriscos
(Muslims that - against prior promises of Christians - were forced to become
Christians but secretly continued to believe in Islam) were expelled from
Spain."[i] (Quoted from the German edition of online-encyclopedia Wikipedia,
Translation from the German by my own. German text: "Zwischen 1609 und 1611
wurden die letzten 275.000 Morisken aus Spanien ausgewiesen". On: http://
de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morisken - last call 04/25/2008 (Thanks to contributing
editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1492 Spanish Jews

150,000 Spanish Jews receive orders to either convert to Christianity or face
expulsion from fear of "contaminating society". Historian HC Lea reports many
Jews died during exodus. M.Margolis, A.Marx, A History of the Jewish People. P.
470-476, see also: Islamkristen, ibidem (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H.
Atrott)

Year: 1492 Mecklenburg

27 Jews are burned at Mecklenburg after being tortured into confessing they had
defiled communion hosts.

Year: 1492-1503 Alexander VI

Alexander VI (1492-1503) earns reputation as world's most notorious pope and
wealthiest man after obtaining power through graft, embezzlement and murder.

Year: 1492 America discovered

Christopher Columbus discovers San Salvador and begins colonization of New
World; Alexander VI divides Americas between Spain and Portugal.

Year: 1492+ Christianization

Within hours of landing Columbus procures 6 natives as "servants" before
avowing to "convert the heathen Indians to our Holy Faith".

Year: 1492+ Columbus

150,000,000 North American Indians are enslaved, exported or killed in name of
Christ over centuries at hands of Spanish and English explorers and pilgrims.

Year: 1493 South America

Papal bull declares church under king Ferdinand is entitled to all land in
South America: "If the Indians refuse, he may quite legally fight them, kill
them and enslave them, just as Joshua enslaved the inhabitants of Canaan.

Year: 1493+ Cortes

30,000,000 Aztecs and Mayans die over years as Spanish conquistadors
proselytize Christian faith.

Year: 1497 Florence

Priceless Renaissance art is destroyed after church decides to burn books,
ornaments and musical instruments inconsistent with Christian ideals.

Year: 1503-13 Julius II

Julius II (1503-13) earns reputation as drunkard and sodomite who allegedly
abused young men including Michelangelo.

Year: 1506 St Peter's

Work begins on St Peters in Rome.

Year: 1508 Michelangelo

Michelangelo begins painting Sistine Chapel ceiling.

Year: 1508 Bearn

Countless lives are lost during mass witchcraft trials at Bearn, France.

Year: 1508 Toulouse

40 lives are lost during mass witchcraft trials at Toulouse, France.

Year: 1509 Henry VIII

Henry VIII becomes King of England.

Year: 1509 Luxeuil, France

Countless lives are lost during mass witchcraft trials at Luxeuil, France.

Year: 1510 Brescia, Italy

140 people are burned as witches at Brescia, Italy.

Year: 1510 Berlin

38 Jews are burned in Berlin after Jew confesses under torture that he had made
communion wafer bleed.

Year: 1512 Copernicus

Church condemns Copernicus theory that Earth revolves around sun.

Year: 1513-21 Leo X

Leo X (1513-21) earns reputation for atheism, homosexuality and excesses;
allegedly sparked Reformation with indulgence selling and claims such as "How
much we have profited by the legend of Christ".

Year: 1514 Valcanonica, Italy

70 die as witches following mass witch trials involving some 5000 suspects at
Valcanonica, Italy.

Year: 1514 Como, Italy

300 people are executed as witches at Como, Italy.

Year: 1517 Reformation

German reformer Martin Luther (1483-1546) leaps upon Leo's sale of indulgences
by nailing his 95 Theses on door of Wittenberg Church.

Year: 1517+ Protestant support

Luther's action receives widespread support among exploited poor who claim
church more concerned with collecting money than teaching scripture.

Year: 1517+ War on Catholics

Protestant preachers reject saint worship, Mary idolatry and sacraments
claiming God should be experienced through scripture.

Year: 1517+ Religious wars

Reformation unleashes torrent of hate claiming lives of millions in numerous
religious wars.

Year: 1517+ Martin Luther

Martin Luther is accused of bigotry after claiming women are inferior: "Girls
begin to talk and to stand on their feet sooner than boys because weeds always
grow up more quickly than good crops".

Year: 1517+ Jew hater

Luther's hatred of Jews is outlined in Jews And Their Lies; pamphlet allegedly
inspires Hitler to exterminate 6,000,000 Jews 420 years later.

Year: 1517+ Banishment

Luther believes Jews should be enslaved or thrown out of Christian lands and
their ghettos and synagogues be burned.

Year: 1517+ Anabaptists

Luther sanctions execution of Anabaptists for heresy of "double baptism" -
baptism first as infant then as adult.

Year: 1517 Mexican conquests

Spanish conquistadors land in Mexico and begin conquests of Aztecs and central
America.

Year: 1520 Montezuma

Aztec emperor Montezuma is murdered.

Year: 1520 Luther excommunicated

Martin Luther is excommunicated by Pope Leo X (1513-1521).

Year: 1521 Diet of Worms

Martin Luther's doctrines are presented before Charles V and formally
condemned.

Year: 1522 German NT

Martin Luther completes translation of New Testament into German.

Year: 1523-34 Clement VII

Clement VII (1523-34) earns reputation as bastard, poisoner, sodomite,
geomancer, church robber, atheist and "most disastrous of all pontiffs".

Year: 1523 Como, Italy

1000 people are burned as witches at Como, Italy.

Year: c1523-34 Cesena massacre

8000 people, including children, are slaughtered at Cesena under Clement VII's
instruction according to chronicler Paulus Jovius.

Year: 1525 Peasants' Revolt

8000 German civilians are slaughtered by papal army during Peasants' Revolt led
by Protestant preacher Thomas Munzer (1490-1525).

Year: 1525 Tyndale Bible

William Tyndale is executed by Catholic Church after printing English New
Testament "so every plowboy might read it".

Year: 1525 Ulrich Zwingli

Ulrich Zwingli (1484-1531) orders slaughter of 1000s of Anabaptists for crime
of "double baptism".

Year: 1529 Diet of Speyer

Catholic and Lutheran leaders mount individual campaigns to eradicate
Anabaptists.

Year: 1529 Luxeuil Witch

Madame Desle la Mansenee is tortured then hanged as witch at Luxeuil, France,
based on gossip gathered secretly by Inquisitor-General of Besancon.

Year: 1530 Lutheran Church

Martin Luther founds Lutheran Church.

Year: 1530 Alonca de Vargas

Alonca de Vargas is burned at stake for smiling inappropriately at mention of
Blessed Virgin.

Year: 1530 Alonso De Jaen

Alonso De Jaen is burned at stake for urinating against church wall.

Year: 1531 Mary vision

Catholic Church considers apparition of Mary at Guadalupe, Mexico, "worthy of
belief".

Year: 1531 Anabaptists

Wittenberg theologians sanction genocide of Anabaptists; sect members are
hunted like rabbits before being mutilated or murdered.

Year: c1531 Condemnation

Luther and Zwingli publicly affirm Wittenberg edict sanctioning execution of
Anabaptists.

Year: 1531 John Calvin

1000s of religious nonconformists are killed and witches burned after John
Calvin (1509-1564) turns Geneva into religious police state.

Year: c1531 Church "magic"

Calvin rebels against church's belief in magic, claiming "papists pretend there
is a magical force in the sacraments, independent of efficacious faith".

Year: c1531 Michael Servetus

Calvin orders execution of popular physician Michael Servetus for doubting
Trinity.

Year: c1531 Jacques Gruet

Calvin orders beheading of Jacques Gruet for blasphemy.

Year: c1531 Witches

Calvin urges burning of witches.

Year: 1531 Henry VIII

Henry VIII breaks from Catholic Church after being refused divorce from
Catherine of Aragon; becomes Supreme Head of Church of England.

Year: 1532 Carolina Code

1000s suffer after Holy Roman Empire issues Carolina Code directing all
witchcraft defendants undergo torture before death.

Year: 1534 English Reformation

Henry VIII beheads Sir Thomas More and other Catholics before commencing
Reformation under Church of England.

Year: c1534 Ireland

Henry VIII crowns himself King of Ireland, thereby starting centuries of civil
unrest after imposing Church of England on Irish Catholics.

Year: 1534 Elizabeth Barton

Domestic servant Elizabeth Barton, of Kent, England, is hanged for witchcraft
and treason at Tarbon after predicting death of Anne Boleyn.

Year: 1534-49 Paul III

Paul III (1534-49) is accused of killing his mother and niece for inheritance
and of poisoning two priests and bishop for disagreeing with him.

Year: 1536 Anne Boleyn

Anne Boleyn (1507-36), Henry VIII's second wife, is executed at Tower of London
amid rumors she practiced witchcraft.

Year: 1536 Calvin published

Calvin publishes Institutes of Christian Religion which in 1541 becomes
handbook of Scottish Reformation.

Year: 1538 Hubmaier

University professor B Hubmaier is burned at the stake in Vienna.

Year: 1538 English crusade

Paul III declares crusade against England in unsuccessful attempt to make them
slaves of Catholic Church.

Year: 1538 Rich people

Spanish author writes: "Bit by bit many rich people leave the country for
foreign realms, in order not to live all their lives in fear and trembling
every time an officer of the Inquisition enters their house; for continual fear
is a worse death than a sudden demise".

Year: 1539-69 Great Bible

First English Bible is authorized for public use in English churches; based on
Tyndale version but "defective in many places".

Year: 1540 Jesuits

Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556) founds Society of Jesus to reconvert Poland,
Hungary, Germany; Jesuit missionaries sent to New World, India and China.

Year: 1541 John Knox

John Knox (1505-72) leads Calvinist Reformation in Scotland.

Year: 1542 Roman Inquisition

Paul III establishes Roman Inquisition to eradicate Protestants: new levels of
cruelty are introduced that "repelled even the Turks and the Saracens".

Year: 1542 Witchcraft Act

Henry VIII passes England's first Witchcraft Act dictating harsh penalties
against alchemists and witches who perform malefica through black magic.

Year: 1542-49 India

3800 die miserable deaths after Jesuit missionaries bring Inquisition to India.

Year: 1542+ India

Several wars are waged between rival Catholic groups Jesuits and Capuchins in
India.

Year: 1543 Bible denounced

Parliament condemns Tyndale's Bible translation as "crafty, false and untrue"
although 80 per cent of words also appear in Catholic Bible.

Year: 1542 Japan

Jesuit missionaries and Portuguese traders arrive in Japan.

Year: 1545-63 Council of Trent

Council of Trent establishes canons in war against Protestants (also called
Counter Reformation).

Year: 1546 Bible banned

King Henry VIII forbids anyone to possess copy of Tyndale's Bible.

Year: 1549 Masters

Japanese Shoguns accuse Jesuits of "wanting to change the government of the
country and make themselves masters of the soil".

Year: c1549 Infighting

Jesuits and Dominicans fight bitterly with each other over territorial and
doctrinal claims in Japan.

Year: 1549 Prayer book

Book of Common Prayer first appears in Episcopal (Anglican) Church.

Year: 1550-5 Julius III

Julius III (1550-5) earns reputation as gay pope who makes teenage boyfriends
cardinals and facilitates orgies where they sodomise each other.

Year: 1553-8 "Bloody Mary"

Mary I becomes ruler of England and attempts to restore Catholicism through
terror: 300 Protestants are burned in 3 years.

Year: c1555 Censorship

Mary I bans publishing of English Scriptures outside church.

Year: 1555-9 Paul IV

Master torturer Paul IV (1555-9) establishes Christianity's first Jewish ghetto
(in Rome) and extends Inquisition into Netherlands and Orient.

Year: 1557 Toulouse

40 people are executed as witches at Toulouse, France.

Year: 1557 Censorship

Paul IV writes church's first Index of Forbidden Books.

Year: 1558-1603 Elizabeth I

Elizabeth I becomes Protestant ruler of England and makes it illegal to
celebrate Catholic mass or conduct Puritan worship.

Year: c1560 Executions

Elizabeth I executes Mary Queen of Scots and 200 other Catholics for conspiring
to remove her from throne.

Year: 1560 Presbyterian Church

John Knox (1505-1572) founds Scotch Presbyterian Church after disagreeing with
Lutherans over sacraments and church government.

Year: 1560+ Kingdom divided

Protestant church fragments into numerous sects each claiming sole access to
divine truth.

Year: 1560-1628 Huguenots

French Protestants (Huguenots) hunt down and kill 1000s of Catholic priests;
one captain allegedly wears priests' ears as necklace.

Year: 1560-1628 Counter attack

Pius orders papal commanders to slaughter Huguenots and kill every prisoner
taken.

Year: 1562 Channel Islands

66 trials occur on Channel Islands between 1562 and 1736; almost 50 per cent of
accused are sentenced to death.

Year: 1562+ Jersey

Unnamed pregnant woman is burned alive at stake in Jersey's Royal Square; she
gives birth during ordeal and baby is thrown back into flames.

Year: 1563 Black Plague

Black Plague breaks out in Europe.

Year: 1563 Witchcraft Act

Elizabeth I introduces new Witchcraft Act in England making folk magic and
spirit invocation punishable by death, imprisonment or pillory.

Year: 1563+ England

Vigilantes and lynch mobs are responsible for deaths of at least 2,000
"witches" in 200 years following Witchcraft Act introduction in England.

Year: 1563+ Indictments

535 indictments on charges of witchcraft are issued during Elizabeth I's reign.

Year: 1563+ Executions

82 accused are put to death on charges of witchcraft during Elizabeth I's
reign.

Year: 1566 Chelmsford

Agnes Waterhouse, 63, of Chelmsford, Essex, is hanged for bewitching neighbor
to death and dispatching a familiar to kill cow and poultry.

Year: 1567 King James I

James I (1566-1625) becomes King of Scotland (as James VI) and fuels witch
hunting hysteria by introducing Witchcraft Act.

Year: 1567+ Scotland

4400 individuals are executed as witches in Scotland until repeal of Witchcraft
Act in 1736; most suffered brutal tortures before death.

Year: 1568 Poitiers

4 lives are lost during witchcraft trials at Poitiers, France.

Year: 1568 Netherlands

Inquisition is established in Spanish Netherlands where 1000s were slain. (See:
K.. H. Deschner, Opus Diaboli, Reinbek 1987, p. 31 and D. Stannard, American
Holocaust, Oxford University Press 1992, p. 216). (Thanks to contributing
editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1570 James Calfhill

James Calfhill (1530-70), Bishop of Worcester, claims "the vilest witches and
sorcerers of the earth are the priests that consecrate crosses and ashes, water
and salt, oil and cream, boughs and bones ...".

Year: 1570 Peru

Theft and violence are virtually unknown in Peru before arrival of Spanish
Christians and Inquisition; church supports native enslavement and theft of
native land.

Year: 1570+ Strife

One Mayan scribe writes: "The Spanish invasion was the beginning of tribute,
the beginning of church dues, the beginning of strife".

Year: 1570 Mexico

Inquisition is established in Mexico for "freeing the land which has become
contaminated by Jews and heretics"; countless natives are burned.

Year: 1570+ Exploitation

Dominicans, Augustinians and Jesuits exploit Mexicans by "owning the largest
flocks of sheep, the finest sugar ingenios and the best kept estates".

Year: 1570 Elizabeth I

Elizabeth I is excommunicated.

Year: 1571 Trois-Echelles

French magician Trois-Echelles is convicted of sorcery and executed in Paris.

Year: 1571 Turkish conquest

Naval armada commanded by Don Juan of Austria destroys Turkish Muslim fleet in
Gulf of Lepanto after reportedly calling upon "Our Lady of the Rosary".

Year: 1572 St Bartholomew's Day

Catholic troops sweep through Paris slaughtering between 10,000 and 20,000
Huguenots (Protestants); an estimated 700,000 flee during campaign. Correction:
About 20,000 Huguenots Catholics massacred on order of Pope Pius V. Additional
200,000 fled until the 17th century. See: K. H. Deschner, Opus Diaboli,
Reinbek, p. 31 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1572 Gaspard de Coligny

Catholic troops murder Huguenot leader Admiral Gaspard de Coligny; his head,
hands and genitals are cut off, then his body is dumped in a river, before
being dragged out and left to rot on a gallows.

Year: c1572 Heretics

Pope Gregory XIII writes to France's Charles IX of Huguenot massacre: "We
rejoice with you that with the help of God you have relieved the world of these
wretched heretics".

Year: 1572-1606 Bishop's Bible

First Bible published by Episcopal (Anglican) Church is said to be "an
inadequate and unsatisfactory revision of the Great Bible".

Year: 1573 Spanish Fury

1000s of Protestants are killed by Duke of Alma in Antwerp and Haarlem during
onslaught called "the Spanish Fury".

Year: 1578 Kilkenny, Ireland

Three unnamed women are executed as witches at Kilkenny, Ireland.

Year: 1578 Francisco Pena

Inquisitor Francisco Pena claims purpose of Inquisition "is not to save the
soul of the accused but to achieve the public good and put fear into others".

Year: 1579 Elizabeth Francis

Elizabeth Francis, of Chelmsford, Essex, is hanged after being accused of using
witchcraft to murder woman, Alice Poole.

Year: 1579 Ellen Smith

Ellen Smith, of Chelmsford, Essex, is hanged after being accused of using
witchcraft to murder 4-year-old girl.

Year: 1579 Alice Noakes

Englishwoman Alice Noakes, of Chelmsford, Essex, is hanged after being accused
of using witchcraft.

Year: 1579 France

France extends death penalty to include "every charlatan and diviner, and
others who practice necromancy, pyromancy, chiromancy and hydromancy".

Year: c1580 Jean Bodin

Jean Bodin (1529-96) revives witch hunt mania after claiming Devil wages war on
Christians through witches in De la Demonomanie des Sorciers.

Year: c1580 Slow burning

Bodin condemns slow burning of witches as inadequate as they die after "only"
half hour, "thereby escaping further punishment".

Year: c1580 Mexico

879 heresy trials are recorded in late 1500s after Spanish Christians bring
Inquisition to Mexico.

Year: 1580 Fortune tellers

Elizabeth I adds fortune-tellers to 1563 Witchcraft Act.

Year: 1581 France

Catholic Church prohibits possession of grimoires or spell books in France.

Year: 1582 Gregorian calendar

Gregory XIII sanctions Gregorian calendar.

Year: 1582 St Osyth Witches

10 women are sentenced to death in England after they are accused of bewitching
inhabitants of St Osyth during witchcraft hysteria in Essex.

Year: 1582 Avignon

18 individuals are burned as witches under Grand Inquisitor Sebastian Michaelis
at Avignon, France.

Year: 1582 China

Pagodas are destroyed, manuscripts burned and ancient customs eradicated after
Jesuit missionaries bring Christianity to China.

Year: 1583 Vienna

Viennese grandmother is tortured then burned alive after Jesuits claim she
cursed her 16-year-old granddaughter with 12,652 demons "kept as flies".

Year: 1588 Spanish Armada

English fleet defeat forces sent by Spain.

Year: 1589 Chelmsford

Joan Prentice, Joan Cony and Joan Upney, are hanged as witches at Chelmsford,
England, based on testimonies of children.

Year: 1589 Tours, France

14 individuals are condemned as witches at Tours, France but are spared after
King Henry III (1551-89) intervenes; Inquisition condemns Henry as "witch
protector".

Year: 1589 Dietrich Flade

German judge Dietrich Flade is brutally tortured then burned after Peter
Binsfield (1540-1603), Bishop of Treves, accuses him of witchcraft and
conspiracy.

Year: 1589 Saxony

133 women are publicly burned as witches in one day at Quedlinburg, Saxony,
Germany.

Year: 1590 Rebecca Lemp

Accountant's wife Rebecca Lemp, of Nordlingen, Germany, is burned after
undergoing severe torture to extract witchcraft confession.

Year: 1590 Nordlingen, Germany

32 people, most respectable citizens, are burned as witches at Nordlingen as
mass hysteria sweeps Germany in early 1590s.

Year: 1590-1 Bavaria

49 out of population of 4700 are burned as witches during witch hunts at
Werdenfels in Bavarian Alps.

Year: 1591 John Fian

Scottish schoolteacher John Fian, of Saltpans, has legs smashed and fingernails
torn out before being burned on witchcraft charges later described as
"laughable".

Year: 1591 North Berwick

Scotland's "North Berwick Witches" Agnes Sampson and Effie Maclean are burned
at stake after being accused of crimes including attempted murder of James VI.

Year: 1591 Margaret Thomson

Margaret Thomson dies under torture during notorious "North Berwick Witches"
trials at Edinburgh; another woman, Gilly Duncan, also is brutally tortured.

Year: 1592 Norway

Oluf Gurdal, of Bergen, becomes first person executed for witchcraft in Norway.

Year: 1593 Warboys Witches

Warboys, Huntington.

Year: 1594

Norway Two unnamed persons are burned as witches in Bergen, Norway, while
another victim is exiled.

Year: 1594 Nordlingen, Germany

German woman Maria Hollin sparks public outrage after surviving 56 horrific
torture sessions without confessing to accusations of witchcraft at Nordlingen.

Year: 1595 Nicolas Remy

French judge Nicholas Remy (1530-1612) publishes Demonolatreiae arguing that
"whatever is not normal is due to the Devil".

Year: c1595 Serious crime

Nicolas Remy denounces witchcraft as most serious of all crimes and personally
sends some 900 witches to their deaths.

Year: 1595 Finland

Finland's first witchcraft execution occurs at Pernaja after unnamed woman is
accused of using magic to induce illness.

Year: 1596 Alice Gooderidge

Alice Gooderidge, 60, dies in Derby prison after being brutally tortured
following claims she had bewitched boy, Thomas Darling.

Year: c1596 Ulster, Ireland

1000s of Catholics starve in exile after James I seizes Ulster from Roman
Church and gives it to Scottish and English Protestants.

Year: 1597 Demonologie

James I publishes Daemonologie which becomes official handbook of Scottish
witch finders; it endorses swimming and pricking to find Devil's mark.

Year: 1597 Aberdeen

23 women and one man are burned at Aberdeen in one of Scotland's most notorious
witchcraft trials; accused are mainly elderly women.

Year: 1597 Edmund Hartley

English conjurer and herbalist Edmund Hartley is hanged after court convicts
him of causing two children of Leigh, Lancashire, to become "possessed".

Year: 1600 Giordano Bruno

Scientist-philosopher Giordano Bruno is burned at stake in Rome for espousing
Copernicus' theory that planets orbit sun.

Year: 1601 Peking

Matteo Ricci enters Peking.

Year: 1601 Else Gwinner

Baker's wife Else Gwinner, of Baden, Germany, is tortured by strappado,
flogging and thumbscrews before being burned as witch.

Year: 1602 Discours des Sorciers

600 people, including young children, are sent to stake by Burgundy's most
notorious witch judge, Henri Boguet (1550-1619); many are brutally tortured.

Year: 1602 Fear & persecution

Henri Boguet writes infamous Discours des Sorciers which intensifies fear and
persecution of witches in following decades.

Year: c1602 Claude Janguillaume

Claude Janguillaume breaks from ropes binding him to stake and is thrown back
into fire three times before dying; one of many examples of horrors of German
witch burnings.

Year: 1603 King James I

James I (1566-1625) becomes King of England and introduces new Witchcraft Act
intensifying Elizabeth I's Witchcraft Act of 1563.

Year: 1603+ Mostly women

James 1 estimates ratio of women to men who "succumb" to witchcraft is 20 to 1;
of those convicted, between 80 to 90 per cent are women.

Year: 1603+ Convictions

Reports reveal 1 in 5 witches sent for trial in England under James I is
convicted of witchcraft.

Year: 1604 Witchcraft Act

James I introduces new Witchcraft Act making death (usually by hanging)
mandatory for anyone convicted of witchcraft or signing pacts with Devil.

Year: 1604+ Salem inspiration

James I Witchcraft Act is later cited by New England Puritans as basis for
prosecution of 150 people at Salem, Massachusetts in 1692.

Year: 1604 Demonologie

James I publishes Daemonologie in England where it finds ready audience among
bigoted Protestant witchhunters.

Year: 1604-1736 England

At least 1000 individuals are executed as witches in England until Witchcraft
Act is repealed in 1736.

Year: 1606 Basilica

Carlo Maderno redesigns St Peter's Basilica into Latin cross.

Year: 1607 Isobel Grierson

Scottish woman Isobel Grierson is strangled then burned in Edinburgh after
being accused of turning into cat and recruiting Devil to cause sickness and
death.

Year: 1607 First US town

First permanent English settlement in America at Jamestown.

Year: 1608 Earl of Mar

Earl of Mar complains to Privy Council of appalling witch executions: "half
burned (they) broke out of the fire and were cast alive in it again until they
were burned to the death".

Year: 1608 William Perkins

English demonologist William Perkins (1555-1602), author of Discourse of the
Damned Art of Witchcraft, emphasizes death penalty for witches and dismisses
miracles claimed by Catholic Church as hoaxes.

Year: 1608+ White witches

William Perkins claims white witches should be treated more severely than black
witches because "they attempt to conceal diabolical origins of magic".

Year: 1608+ Inspiration

Perkins' writings later inspires notorious US Congregationalist witch hunter
Cotton Mather - prime mover behind Salem witch trials.

Year: 1608 Basque witches

600 Basque men, women and children are executed as witches in 4 months by
French lawyer Pierre de Lancre (1553-1631) who sweeps through Bearn in
Pyrenees.

Year: 1609 Pierre Bocal

Basque priest Pierre Bocal is burned alive after it is rumored he presided over
both Christian and pagan rites and wore goat mask.

Year: 1609 Baptist Church

Baptist Church is founded by John Smyth due to objections to infant baptism in
other Protestant churches.

Year: 1609-22 Witch Bishop

300 individuals are tortured and burned as witches in Bamberg, Germany, under
"Witch Bishop" Johann Gottfried von Aschhausen.

Year: 1610 Navarre, Spain

6 witches are burned as witches in Navarre, Spain.

Year: 1610 Chelmsford

Katherine Lawrett, of Colne Wake, Essex, is hanged at Chelmsford after being
charged with using witchcraft to destroy horse belonging to one Francis Plaite.

Year: 1611-1800 King James Bible

King James Bible is published based on Bishop's Bible; revisers over years have
been called "damnable corrupters of God's word".

Year: 1611 Aix-en-Provence

French priest Louis Gaufridi, of Marseilles, is slowly burned to death after
being brutally tortured for allegedly sparking "possession" outbreak in
convent.

Year: 1612 Pendle witches

Anne Redfearne, Elizabeth Device, Anne Whittle, James Device, Alison Device,
Alice Nutter, John Bulcock, Jane Bulcock , Katherine Hewitt and Isabel Robey
are hanged in Lancashire as result of witch hysteria.

Year: 1612 Jennet Preston

Jennet Preston, of York, is hanged after being "proved" of murder during "bier
right" (belief corpse bleeds after being touched by murderer).

Year: 1616 Leicester

9 people are hanged after Leicester court finds them guilty of causing boy, 13,
to suffer fits; Archbishop of Canterbury later declares their innocence.

Year: 1618 Margaret Barclay

Scottish gentlewoman, Margaret Barclay, is strangled and burned at stake in
Ayrshire after being tortured into confessing she used witchcraft to sink ship.

Year: 1618 Isobel Crawford

Isobel Crawford, of Scotland, is tortured then burned after being named as
accomplice by Margaret Barclay who confesses to witchcraft under torture.

Year: 1618-48 30-year war

War lasting 30 years erupts between Catholics and Protestants in Germany,
France, England, Sweden and Denmark.

Year: 1618-48 Catastrophe

14,000,000 people die in Germany alone from 30-year war between Catholics and
Protestants described by one commentator as "human catastrophe".

Year: 1619 Lincoln Witches

Anne Baker, Eileen Greene, Joan Willimot and Margaret and Philippa Flower are
hanged as witches at Lincoln, England, after being accused of using magic
against Earl of Rutland to make wife infertile.

Year: 1619-1860 African slaves

4,000,000 African slaves are shipped by Christians to North America aboard "the
good ship Jesus Christ" between 1619 and 1860.

Year: 1620 Pilgrim

Pilgrims sail from Holland to New England and establish Plymouth.

Year: 1623 Isobel Haldine

Scottish woman Isobel Haldine, of Perth, is strangled and burned after she is
accused of using magic to aid and cure sick people.

Year: 1623-33 Bamberg

At least 600 people are burned as witches in Germany under Gottfried Johann
Georg II Fuchs von Dornheim, Bishop of Bamberg; most endured brutal tortures
before death.

Year: 1623-44 Urban VIII

Urban VIII imprisons Galileo after ordering him to retract "damnable heresy"
that earth revolves around sun.

Year: 1625-6 Catherine Henot

Catherine Henot is burned under Archbishop Ferdinand of Cologne after being
found guilty of bewitching nuns in St Claire.

Year: 1626 Manhattan

Peter Minuit buys Manhattan Island from Indians for equivalent of $24.

Year: 1628 Johannes Junius

Johannes Junius, mayor of Bamberg, Germany, is burned for witchcraft after
being brutally tortured by thumbscrews, boots and strappado.

Year: 1630-40 Franz Buirmann

100s of Germans are burned as witches by church lawyer Franz Buirmann described
as one of Europe's most ruthless witch judges.

Year: 1630-40 Wealthy

Many of Buirmann's suspects are wealthy individuals who are brutally tortured
into confessing charges so church may confiscate their property.

Year: 1630 Milan

Numerous suspects are tortured then executed in Milan after being accused of
causing plague outbreak by smearing magical ointment on city walls.

Year: 1631 Christine Boffgen

Respected German matriarch Christine Boffgen, of Rheinbach, dies after having
legs smashed by officials bent on extracting wealth for church.

Year: 1631 Dominic Gordel

French priest Dominic Gordel, of Vomecourt, France, dies during thumbscrew,
vice and ladder torture at Toul after being accused of witchcraft by children.

Year: 1630 Massachusetts

Puritans flee to New England and establish colony at Massachusetts Bay.

Year: 1631 Friedrich von Spee

Inquisitor Friedrich von Spee claims witchcraft confessions "inevitable": "If
she confesses, her guilt is clear: she is executed; if she does not confess,
the torture is repeated - twice, thrice, four times. She can never clear
herself; the investigating body would feel disgraced if it acquitted a woman;
once arrested and in chains, she has to be guilty, by fair means or foul".

Year: 1634 John Canne

Writer John Canne says "the sacraments were not ordained by God to be used ...
as charms and sorceries".

Year: 1634 Urbain Grandier

French priest Urbain Grandier, has legs brutally smashed then is slowly burned
at stake after being accused of bewitching Ursuline nuns at Loudun.

Year: c1635 Benedict Carpzov

Lutheran judge Benedict Carpzov (1595-1666) publishes Practica Rerum Criminalum
to support systemize legal persecution of witches.

Year: c1635 Benedict Carpzov

Benedict Carpzov, "lawgiver of Saxony", issues 20,000 death warrants for
arrest, torture and execution of German witches throughout career.

Year: 1635 Pedro Ginesta

Pedro Ginesta, 80, of Barcelona, is burned at stake after forgetting which day
of week it was and accidentally eating bacon on Friday.

Year: 1636 Buirmann

Official executioner of one of Europe's most ruthless witch judges, Franz
Buirmann, himself is burned for witchcraft at Siegberg, Germany.

Year: 1637 Rheinbach

Estimated 1 person in every 2 families in Rheinbach, Germany, is believed to
have been executed by ruthless witch judge Franz Buirmann.

Year: 1637 Eichstatt

Unnamed woman is burned for witchcraft after being tortured by flogging,
ladder, boots and strappado at Eichstatt near Ingolstadt, Bavaria.

Year: c1637 Eichstatt

Estimated 2000 accused witches are burned after prolonged torture at Eichstatt
during Bavarian witch hysteria.

Year: 1643 Newbury Witch

Unnamed Englishwoman is executed for witchcraft at Newbury, Berkshire, after
soldiers claimed she walked on water; woman claimed she was on raft.

Year: 1645-6 Matthew Hopkins

220 lives are lost over 14 months during witch trials conducted by fanatical
Puritan and self-described witch finder general, Matthew Hopkins (1621-47).

Year: 1645-6 Torture

Hopkins extracts witchcraft confessions by pricking, ducking, swimming, sleep
deprivation or enforced walking for excessive periods.

Year: 1645 Chelmsford

5 women are hanged as witches at Chelmsford after Hopkins tortures
"confessions" from elderly one-legged woman, Elizabeth Clarke.

Year: 1645 Chelmsford

26 women are hanged as witches at Chelmsford after Hopkins tortures confessions
from 5 women before hanging them as witches.

Year: 1645 John Lowes

English clergyman John Lowes, 80, of Brandeston, Suffolk, is hanged for
witchcraft after being walked and swum in moat of Framlingham Castle.

Year: 1645 Bury St Edmunds

17 women are hanged at Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, after being found guilty of
witchcraft by self-styled witch finder general, Matthew Hopkins (1621-47).

Year: 1645 Faversham Witches

Joan Williford, Jane Holt, Joan Argoll and Elisabeth Harris are executed as
witches at Faversham, Kent, after confessions are extracted under torture.

Year: 1645 Mother Lakeland

Englishwoman Mother Lakeland is burned at stake in Ipswich after being accused
of using witchcraft to murder husband and others.

Year: 1646 Castelnuovo, Italy

8 people are beheaded then burned after confessions are extracted under torture
from elderly woman La Mercuria in Castelnuovo, Italy.

Year: 1647 Thomas Boulle

French priest Thomas Boulle is tortured, dragged on hurdle then burned alive in
Rouen after being accused of bewitching nuns at Louviers.

Year: 1647-62 Connecticut

11 people are convicted of witchcraft and executed in northeastern American
trials conducted mainly by Puritans over 15 years.

Year: 1647 Alice Young

Alice Young becomes first woman to be hanged for witchcraft in Connecticut
after witchcraft legislation is passed by Puritans in 1642.

Year: 1647 Matthew Hopkins

Matthew Hopkins is allegedly hanged after failing swimming ordeal conducted by
mob testing his main method of "proving" witches.

Year: 1648 Polish Jews

200,000 Jews are slain during Christian massacres at Chmielnitzki, Poland.

Year: 1650 Norway

Karen Thorsdatter and Bodil Kvams are burned at Kristiansand, Norway, after
confessing to flying to sabbats on animals and plotting to kill local
magistrate.

Year: 1650 Short sleeves

New England Puritans issue law prohibiting wearing of short-sleeves "whereby
the nakedness of the arm may be discovered".

Year: 1651 Mary Parsons

Mary Parsons is sentenced to death by Boston court after being found guilty of
using witchcraft to murder her child; she is later reprieved.

Year: 1651 Goodwife Bassett

Goodwife Bassett is found guilty of witchcraft at Stratford, Connecticut.

Year: 1651 Neisse, Germany

42 women are roasted in ovens as witches in Niesse, Germany; more than 1000
"witches", as young as 2, are executed in similar manner in Niesse in 9 years.

Year: 1653 Sunday walks banned

New England Puritans issue law prohibiting Sunday walks and visits to beach as
"dishonoring God"; children playing on Sundays becomes "religious reproach".

Year: 1653 Anne Bodenham

Doctor's assistant Anne Bodenham, of Wiltshire, is hanged after being accused
of witchcraft and finding of "Devil marks" on her body.

Year: 1653-8 Oliver Cromwell

Puritan leader Oliver Cromwell (1599-1658) becomes Lord Protector of England.

Year: 1653-8 Ironsides

1000s of Anglicans are slaughtered during bloody battles led by hymn-singing,
Bible-wielding "Ironsides" under Puritan leader Oliver Cromwell.

Year: c1655 Irish Catholics

Cromwell seizes three-quarters of Ireland's land from Catholics in 3 years and
orders slaughter of one-third of local population.

Year: 1655 Cologne

Last recorded witch execution in Cologne.

Year: 1656 Quakers

100s are arrested, whipped, branded, mutilated and sold as slaves during Quaker
persecutions conducted by rival Christian groups in US.

Year: 1656-7 Blaise Pascall

Philosopher Blaise Pascall (1623-1662) writes: "Men never do evil so completely
and cheerfully as when they do it from religious conviction".

Year: 1658 Restoration

1800 Puritan rectors are ousted from church posts after Anglican Restoration
backlash commences following Cromwell's death in 1658.

Year: c1658 Non-attendance

Law is introduced during Restoration decreeing death penalty for anyone
attending non-Anglican church service.

Year: 1659 Thomas Looten

Frenchman Thomas Looten dies during torture after being accused of witchcraft
at Lille; corpse is burned and remains hung on gibbet "for all to see".

Year: 1659 Norwich

Englishwoman May Oliver is burned at stake after being convicted of witchcraft
at Norwich, England.

Year: 1661 Dalkeith Witch

Christine Wilson, of Scotland, is executed after being "proved" of murder
during "bier right" (belief corpses bleed after being touched by murderer).

Year: 1661 Florence Newton

Irish peasant Florence Newton, is executed at Cork after being accused of using
witchcraft to kill man, David Jones, and bewitching servant girl, Mary Longdon.

Year: 1662 Hartford, Connecticut

Rebecca Greensmith of Hartford, Connecticut, is executed after confessing to
having intercourse with Devil in form of deer.

Year: 1662 Hartford, Connecticut

Rebecca Greensmith's husband, Nathaniel, is executed despite denying all
knowledge of wife's activities.

Year: 1662 Bury St Edmunds

Englishwomen Rose Cullender and Amy Duny, of Lowestoft, are hanged at Bury St
Edmunds after Puritan judge Matthew Hale (1609-76) convicts them of witchcraft
based on testimonies of children.

Year: 1662 Isobel Gowdie

Scottish farmer's wife Isobel Gowdie is hanged then burned for witchcraft after
confessing to having intercourse with Devil and flying to sabbats on beanstalk.

Year: 1662 Auldearn Witches

12 members of suspected coven at Auldearn, Scotland, are sent to gallows after
Isobel Gowdie confesses to their activities in Scottish court.

Year: 1662 Scottish witches

Accused witches Katherine Sowter - "the Witch of Bandon" - and Janet Breadheid
are hanged by Scottish court at Auldearn.

Year: 1663 Julian Cox

English beggar Julian Cox (1593-1663) is executed for witchcraft after Somerset
court hears she kept toad as familiar and could transform herself into hare.

Year: 1667-89 Austria

100 people are tortured into confessing to witchcraft practices in Salzburg,
Germany, before being beheaded, strangled or burned.

Year: 1669 Katherine Harrison

Katherine Harrison, of Wethersfield, Connecticut, is sentenced to death for
witchcraft; sentence is later commuted to banishment from town.

Year: 1669 Mora witch hunt

70 women and 15 children are burned at stake at Mora, Sweden after children
tell local pastor they were initiated into service of Satan.

Year: 1669 Witchcraft pamphlets

Scholars claim Mora witch hunt commenced through children being influenced by
printed pamphlets describing witchcraft sensations elsewhere.

Year: 1670 Rouen, France

525 people are indicted on charges of witchcraft at Rouen, France; death
penalties are commuted to banishment under orders of Louis XIV.

Year: 1670 Norway

Karen Snedkers and 6 others are burned as witches in Copenhagen after being
accused of using magic against local councilor and city clerk.

Year: 1670 Scandinavia

Ole and Lisbet Nypen are burned as witches at Trondheim after being accused of
causing man to develop rheumatism and young girl to become cripple.

Year: 1675 St Paul's, London

Christopher wren begins reconstruction of St Paul's Cathedral, London.

Year: 1675 Yorkshire

Susan and Joseph Hinchcliffe, of Yorkshire, England, are murdered after
children accuse them of using witchcraft to kill neighbor, Martha Haigh.

Year: 1676 Marquise de Brinvilliers

French aristocrat Marquise de Brinvilliers (1639-76) is tortured, beheaded then
burned after being accused of using witchcraft to kill relatives.

Year: 1677-81 Salzberg, Austria

Estimated 100 people are tortured then beheaded, strangled or burned during
witchcraft scare that sweeps Salzberg, Austria, in 4 years.

Year: 1677-80 Chambre Ardente

36 people are executed and 38 banished or sentenced to galleys over "Chambre
Ardente" witchcraft scandal centering on court of Louis XIV.

Year: 1678 Pilgrim's Progress

John Bunyan publishes Pilgrim's Progress.

Year: 1680 La Voisin

French fortune teller La Voisin has legs smashed before being burned at stake
during Chambre Ardente witchcraft scandal.

Year: 1680 Norway

Man named Ingebrigt becomes last person executed for witchcraft in Norway after
he is accused of attending sabbats and poisoning cattle.

Year: c1680 "The Killing Time"

1000s of hard-line Protestants called Cameronians are hunted down by royal
troops during reign of King James II.

Year: c1680 Puritan police state

Puritans create New England religious police state imposing harsh penalties on
doctrinal deviates.

Year: c1680 Persecutions

1000s are hanged, flogged, pilloried, banished or have ears cut off or tongues
bored with hot irons by Puritans during Massachusetts heresy persecutions.

Year: c1680 Cursing

Puritans decree death penalty for children who "curse" or "smite" parents.

Year: 1682 Madrid

21 heretics are burned, 50 Jews paraded in humiliating costumes and 10 witches
flogged at auto da fe "act of faith" festival in Madrid city square.

Year: 1682 Exeter Witches

Temperance Lloyd, Susanna Edwards and Mary Trembles, of Devon, are hanged for
witchcraft during England's notorious Exeter trials.

Year: 1683 Finland

Laws are passed in Finland directing death by hanging for male witches guilty
of murder and burning for female counterparts.

Year: 1684 Last witch

Alice Molland becomes last person executed for witchcraft in England after
being hanged at Exeter.

Year: 1687 Finland

Law is passed in Finland directing death penalty for individuals convicted of
making pact with Devil.

Year: 1688 Goodwin Trial

Boston laundress Goody Glover is convicted of witchcraft after allegedly
causing 4 children to have fits while working in their home.

Year: 1689 Cotton Mather

Congregational minister Cotton Mather (1662-1728) becomes US' most dedicated
witch hunter after publishing Memorable Providences Relating to Witchcrafts and
uttering "better whipped than damned".

Year: 1689 Blanckenstein

German woman called Blanckenstein is burned alive at Naumburg, Saxony, after
confessing under threat of torture to using witchcraft to kill livestock.

Year: 1690s Quaker persecutions

Puritans hang 4 Quakers after law against preaching Quaker beliefs is
introduced in Massachusetts.

Year: 1691 Balthasar Bekkar

Dutch clergyman Balthasar Bekkar writes The World Bewitched claiming Catholic
priests use witchcraft delusion to generate income.

Year: 1692 Salem witch trials

Church followers led by Cotton Mather hang 19 people for witchcraft and accuse
150 others during Massachusetts witchcraft craze of 1692.

Year: 1692 Giles Cory

Giles Cory, 80, becomes only American citizen pressed to death for witchcraft.

Year: 1694 Elsche Nebelings

German widow Elsche Nebelings, 63, is tried as witch in Saxony after showing
girl how to make mouse "magically appear" in empty handkerchief.

Year: 1697 Paisley Witches

7 women are hanged then burned at Renfrewshire, Scotland, after girl, 14,
concocts story they used witchcraft against her.

Year: c1699 Irish persecution

Sustained battles between Catholics, Anglicans and Puritans in Ireland result
in establishment of Penal Laws in 1700s outlawing Catholicism.

Year: c1699 Persecutions

Protestants hunt Catholics with bloodhounds in Ireland; many are killed or
banish.

Year: 1699 Ireland

Unnamed Irish woman is burned for witchcraft after court convicts her of
causing girl, 19, to have fits.

Year: 1699 Coggeshall witch

Elderly Englishwoman, Widow Coman, dies after being swum as witch under orders
from Reverend J Boys, vicar of Coggeshall.

Year: 1700 Shetland

Unnamed witch is burned for witchcraft at Gallows Hill outside Scalloway,
Shetland.

Year: c1700 Marquis de Sade

Catholic writer, Marquis de Sade, on whose name word "sadism" is based, claims
receiving inspiration for perversions from church leaders.

Year: 1702-10 Camisards

Efforts to stamp out Protestantism by Louis XIV causes fanatical Camisards to
revolt and kill Catholic priests and burn churches in southern France.

Year: 1702-10 Camisards

1000s perish after Catholic troops slaughter entire villages occupied by
Camisard leaders.

Year: 1703 New England Indians

New England religious leader Reverend Solomon Stoddard proposes packs of dogs
be trained to hunt down heathen Indians "as they do bears".

Year: 1704 Pittenweem witch

Scottish woman Beatrix Laing, of Fife, dies of ill-treatment after being
pricked and imprisoned in darkness for 5 months then undergoing sleep
deprivation for 5 days after being accused of witchcraft.

Year: 1704 Thomas Brown

Scottish man Thomas Brown, of Fife, dies of starvation while in prison after
being accused of witchcraft and plotting to strangle one Alexander Macgregor.

Year: 1705 Joan Cornfoot

Scottish woman Joan Cornfoot is beaten then pressed to death by angry mob after
being accused of witchcraft at Pittenweem, Fife.

Year: 1705 Mary Philips

English peasants Mary Philips and Elinor Shaw are hanged at Northampton after
being tried for witchcraft based on village rumors.

Year: 1715 Huguenot Exodus

100,000s of French Huguenots (Protestants) flee France after Catholic King
Louis XIV bans Protestant faith in France.

Year: 1715 Rhineland

1000s of Protestants are violently persecuted by Catholic Christians in
Rhineland Palatinate.

Year: 1717 Jane Clark

Jane Clark of Great Wigston, Leicester, undergoes swimming and scoring above
breath after 25 neighbors accuse her of witchcraft.

Year: 1718 Bordeaux

Unnamed Frenchman becomes last witch executed in Bordeaux, France, after he is
accused of creating ligature to make person impotent.

Year: c1720 Censorship

English writer, Thomas Woolston, is imprisoned for life after voicing doubts
over Resurrection and Bible miracles.

Year: 1722 Georg Prols

Bavarian Georg Prols, is savagely tortured then beheaded and burned at
Moosburg, near Freising, after schoolchildren accuse him of witchcraft.

Year: 1722 Scotland

Old unnamed Scottish woman is burned to death after being convicted of turning
daughter into pony and riding her to witches' Sabbat.

Year: 1723 Polish Jews

100s of Jews are beaten to death in Poland after Bishop of Gdansk rouses mob to
invade country's Jewish ghettoes and provinces.

Year: c1720 Polish Jews

100,000 Polish Jews are slaughtered in 300 communities before Ukraine is
wrested from Catholics by Orthodox Russians.

Year: 1728-34 Bavaria

20 suspects are brought before courts on witchcraft charges at Augsburg,
Bavaria; several are executed.

Year: 1730 Methodist Church

John Wesley founds Methodist Church.

Year: 1732 Salzburg

20,000 Protestants are forcibly expelled from Salzburg under orders from
Archbishop Firmian.

Year: 1735-36 Witchcraft Act

Witchcraft Act of James I is repealed much to anger of church leaders still
believing witches should be burned.

Year: 1742 Dijon, France

Father Bertrand Guillaudot and 5 others are burned alive at Dijon, France, for
using magic to divine location of treasure.

Year: 1745 Lyons, France

Father Louis Debaraz is burned alive at Lyons after being convicted of
performing sacrilegious masses in attempt to find treasure.

Year: 1749 Marienburg

German nun Maria Renata is beheaded then burned at Marienburg after nuns claim
she climbed over convent walls as pig while possessed.

Year: 1751 Osborne Witches

Elderly couple Ruth and John Osborne suffer fatal injuries after being swum as
witches by mob of 30 Christians at Hertfordshire, England.

Year: 1761 Nancy, France

Unnamed Jew is executed for allegedly defiling communion host at Nancy, France.

Year: 1766 Abbeville, France

Teenager Chevalier de La Barre, of Abbeville, is sentenced to have tongue cut
out and right hand amputated before burning for singing during procession.

Year: c1770 Voltaire

Voltaire (1694-1778) becomes crusader against church cruelty and injustice; his
Philosophical Dictionary is banned by Holy Office.

Year: c1770 Jean Calas

Protestant cotton trader Jean Calas is broken by wheel after allegedly killing
his son for turning Catholic; Voltaire later prove man's innocence.

Year: c1770 Jean Pierre Espinas

Jean Pierre Espinas spends 23 years as convict oarsman in galley for giving
lodgings to Protestant minister; Voltaire obtains man's release.

Year: c1770 Nicolas Freret

Historian Nicolas Freret writes: "The Christians have been more abominable
monsters than all the sectaries of the other religions put together".

Year: 1775 Anna Maria Schwagel

Bavarian Anna Maria Schwagel becomes last woman executed for witchcraft in
Germany after being put to death in Kempten, Bavaria.

Year: 1776 American Independence

British colonies in America declare independence from England.

Year: 1782 Switzerland

Last legal execution of witch in Switzerland.

Year: 1788+ Tasmanian aborigines

4500 Tasmanian aborigines are exterminated after Anglican evangelist Governor
Arthur Phillip mounts campaign against them for not embracing Christianity.

Year: 1789 French Revolution

French Revolution begins with storming of Bastille.

Year: c1789 Thomas Paine

French Revolutionary Thomas Paine denounces Christianity as superstitious
system for fanatics; his writings are banned in England.

Year: 1789 Cagliostro

Italian nobleman Cagliostro (1743-1795) is sentenced to life imprisonment after
offering guests magical services at Piazza Farnese, Rome.

Year: c1800 Tithe War

1000s die and scores are wounded during religious riots in Ireland after
Anglican Church imposes tithing on Catholic Church.

Year: 1801 Bucharest, Romania

128 Jews have throats cut after Orthodox priests spread rumors Christian
children were used in blood-drinking rituals.

Year: 1803 Holy Empire ends

Napoleon abolishes Holy Roman Empire.

Year: 1808-29 Spanish America

Spanish-American wars of independence.

Year: 1814 Spanish Inquisition

Spanish Inquisition suppressed by Napoleon is restored by Ferdinand VII in
1814.

Year: 1815-1900 Africa & Middle East

Christians begin colonization of North Africa and Middle East.

Year: 1821 Ireland

Witchcraft Act is repealed in Ireland.

Year: 1823 Inquisition ends

Spanish Inquisition is suppressed again in 1820, restored in 1823 and finally
eradicated in 1834.

Year: 1827 Mormons

Mormon Church is founded after Joseph Smith claims receiving visions of angel
called Moroni.

Year: c1840 Australian aborigines

Explorer Paul Strzlecki claims 1000s of Australian aborigines are slaughtered
for refusing to embrace Christianity.

Year: 1844 Stolen generation

Australia introduces Protection of Children Act permitting church missionaries
to "steal" aboriginal children for placement in white Christian homes.

Year: 1855 Lydia Maria Child

US abolitionist and author Lydia Maria Child (1802-1880) claims "it is
impossible to exaggerate the evil work theology has done in the world".

Year: 1858 Lourdes

Catholic Church considers reported apparition of Mary in Lourdes, France,
"worthy of belief".

Year: 1859 Darwin

Charles Darwin publishes Origin of Species.

Year: 1862 US slavery ends

Lincoln issues Emancipation Proclamation.

Year: 1863 Dummy

English mute called Dummy, 80, dies after being swum as witch by Christian mob
at Sible Hedington, Essex.

Year: 1864 Colorado Indians

700 heavily armed Christian troops exterminate all native American men, women
and children of Sand Creek, Colorado; between 400 and 500 are killed.

Year: 1869 First Vatican Council

Vatican confirms doctrine of papal infallibility meaning no Catholic may
question papal authority.

Year: c1870 Jehovah's Witnesses

Charles Russell (1852-1922) founds Jehovah's Witnesses.

Year: 1882 Russia

35,000 Jews are expelled from Moscow after discovery one of Czar Alexander II's
assassins is Jewish.

Year: 1887 Lucy Coleman

Activist and author Lucy Coleman (1818-1906) condemns Bible as "an argument for
the degradation of woman and the abuse by whipping of little children".

Year: 1888 Brazil

Brazil abolishes slavery.

Year: 1885 Robert Ingersoll

US philosopher Robert Ingersoll argues in Myth Miracle that "theology has
always sent the worst to heaven, the best to hell".

Year: 1885 Helen Gardner

Helen Gardner argues in Men, Women and Gods Christianity and Bible "require of
woman everything, and give her nothing".

Year: c1890 Armenia

200,000 people die after Protestant forces move into Armenia causing civil
unrest between Catholic and Orthodox Christians.

Year: 1891 Wounded Knee

Heavily armed Christian troops exterminate all native American men, women and
children of Wounded Knee in South Dakota.

Year: 1894 Clonmel burning

Bridget Cleary (1868-94), of Tipperary, becomes last woman executed as witch in
Ireland after she is roasted on kitchen fire at Clonmel.

Year: 1895 Friedrich Nietzsche

Philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900) in The Antichrist condemns
Christianity as "the one immortal blemish of mankind".

Year: 1896 Elizabeth Stanton

US author Elizabeth Stanton (1815-1902) denounces Christianity as "the fountain
of all tyranny".

Year: 1899 Mark Twain

US novelist Mark Twain (1835-1910) denounces Christianity as having "mouth full
of hypocrisies": "give her soap ... but hide the looking-glass".

Year: c1900 Ireland

Scores die during religious fighting following liberation of southern Ireland
(Catholic) from northern Ireland (Protestant).

Year: c1900 Sigmund Freud

Psychiatrist Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) denounces Christianity as world's most
egotistical religion as Christians claim "Jesus saves me".

Year: 1901 Pentecostal Church

Pentecostal Church is formed in Topeka, Kansas as result of loss of evangelical
fervour among Methodists and other churches; new fanaticism is introduced.

Year: 1903 Russian unrest

300 Jews die at Odessa and 120 at Yekaterinoslav after Orthodox Christians
blame civil unrests on "Jewish machinations".

Year: 1909 Armenia

20,000 people die and scores are wounded during religious clashes between
Protestant, Catholic and Orthodox Christians in Armenia.

Year: 1910 Albert Schweitzer

German theologian Albert Schweitzer (1875-1965) denies historical Christ
claiming "there is nothing more negative than the result of the critical study
of the life of Jesus".

Year: 1914-18 First World War

Bertrand Russell denounces WWI as wholly Christian in origin as "the three
Emperors were devout, and so were the more warlike of the British Cabinet".

Year: 1917 Torture banned

Codex Juris Canonici bull is introduced finally banning church-sanctioned
torture.

Year: 1917-8 Russian revolution

Orthodox Church is overthrown by Russian peasants perceiving church had become
too greedy and powerful.

Year: 1917-8 Jews eradicated

60,000 Jews are killed in 530 Russian communities after political-religious
uprising erupts aiming to "strike at the bourgeoisie and the Jews".

Year: 1922 Hitler

Hitler reveals true religious beliefs in 1922 speech when he says: "My feelings
as a Christian point me to my Lord and Saviour as a fighter".

Year: 1924 Robert Hughes

Historian Robert Hughes says in Why I Quit Going To Church "of all the
religions ... the Christian religion ha(s) the most horrible record".

Year: 1939-45 Second World War

Pius XII (1939-58), "Hitler's Pope", turns blind eye to religious atrocities
committed by Nazis against Jews during WWII.

Year: 1939-45 Holocaust

6,000,000 Jews die under Hitler's orders in human catastrophe allegedly
inspired by Martin Luther's pamphlet, Jews and Their Lies.

Year: 1941-5 Ustashi

60,000 Orthodox Christians, Jews and Muslims are massacred by fanatical
Catholic "Ustashi" soldiers under Croatian leader Ante Pavelic (1889-1959). (
corrected from 600,000 by xylin@net.hr ) A new Correction has been submitted:
Not only 60,000 but 300,000 - 600,000 victims.

The evidence taken from: Source Link 02/12/2008 Quote: Catholic extermination
camps - Surprisingly few know that Nazi extermination camps in World War II
were by no means the only ones in Europe at the time. In the years 1942-1943
also in Croatia existed numerous extermination camps, run by Catholic Ustasha
under their dictator Ante Paveli , a practicing Catholic and regular visitor to
the then pope. There were even concentration camps exclusively for children! In
these camps - the most notorious was Jasenovac, headed by a Franciscan friar -
orthodox-Christian Serbians (and a substantial number of Jews) were murdered.
Like the Nazis the Catholic Ustasha burned their victims in kilns, alive (the
Nazis had victims gassed first). But most of the victims were simply stabbed,
slain or shot to death, the number of them being estimated between 300,000 and
600,000, in a rather tiny country. Many of the killers were Franciscan friars.
The atrocities were appalling enough to induce bystanders of the Nazi
"Sicherheitsdienst der SS", watching, to complain about them to Hitler (who did
not listen). The pope knew about these events and did nothing to prevent them.
[MV] (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1945 Discovery of Nag Hammadi Scrolls

New Entry: In a cave near the commentary in Nag Hammadi (Egypt), two peasants
Muhammad and Khalifa Ali find a sealed jar containing more than fifty early
Christian texts Christian Church wanted to destroy forever. In the meantime all
of the texts are translated into English. Until today, Christian theology tries
playing down this embarrassing finding and diverts attention from it by talking
big about the Dead Sea Scrolls which -- unlike the discovery of Nag Hammadi --
have hardly anything to do with Christianity but with Judaism. It turned out
that some of Nag Hammadi texts indeed exaggerate Jesus' "signs (and) lying
wonders" (2Th 2:9) "apparent in the working of Satan" (2Th 2:9). However, some
of them, for instance, "The Gospel of Thomas" could be one the "pre-existing
Christian literature" (Christian theologian Philipp Vielhauer) from which the
"gospels" of the "New Testament" became compiled according to Christian
theologians Bultmann and Vielhauer. For instance, in none of the scriptures of
Nag Hammadi Simon Peter is called the successor of Jesus. "The Gospel of
Thomas" calls Jesus half-brother James (see: Logion: 12) as Jesus' successor.
This already is a sufficient case for Catholic sect to call this "gospel"
non-authentic" and "apocryphal". Actually, when Jesus disappeared from the
Palestine scene - for whatever reason - James became head of the Jerusalem
community. This text also unveils what misogynists Jesus and his gang are. They
are convinced that women are not worthy to live: "Simon Peter said to him, 'Let
Mary leave us, for women are not worthy of life.' Jesus said, 'I myself shall
lead her in order to make her male, so that she too may become a living spirit
resembling you males. For every woman who will make herself male will enter the
kingdom of heaven.'" Source: "The Gospel of Thomas", Logion 114, Translated by
Thomas O. Lambdin , Source Link . Some of the rediscovered texts debunk the
deception of crucifixion already reported by the Basilideans and later even by
Islamic prophet Muhammad (see here: Year 640). In one of the text "disciple"
James says to his "god": "Lord, do not mention to us the cross and the death,
for they are far from you." Source: "The Gospel of James", sometimes also
called "The Apocryphon of James", Translated by Ron Cameron, Source Link, last
call: 07/13/2008. The latter text also apprises that Jesus could not get well
along with his henchmen ("disciples" and vice versa). Jesus did not only feel
pursued by the Pharisees but also by his closet henchmen: " you (my disciples)
have pursued me (Jesus)" (ibidem). Another rediscovered scripture reports a
visit of the left eleven closest henchmen ("disciples") of Jesus who is lied
having "died" (on the cross), "risen from the dead" and "ascended into heaven"
but actually hid by a pseudonym "Lithargoel" on an island -- presumably in the
Mediterranean Sea -- and made there his living as seller of pearls. Source: The
Acts of Peter and the Twelve Apostle, Translated by Douglas M. Parrott and R.
McL.Wilson, on: Source Link, last call on 07/18/2008. Who wonders that
Christian theologians rather want to talk about the Dead Sea Scroll? (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1949 Dead Sea Scrolls

Dead Sea Scrolls are discovered at Qumran raising questions about real truths
behind Christianity.

Year: c1950 Ireland

Scores die during Catholic IRA terrorists attacks in attempts to unify Northern
Ireland (Protestants) and southern Ireland (Catholics).

Year: 1951 Witchcraft

Witchcraft as crime is finally removed from English statute books by British
Parliament.

Year: 1955 Margaret Knight

Author Margaret Knight (1903-83) claims in Morals Without Religion that
"ethical teaching is weakened if it is tied up with dogmas that will not bear
examination".

Year: 1957 Bertrand Russell

English philosopher Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) claims Christian Church "has
been and still is the principal enemy of moral progress in the world".

Year: 1958 Rudolph Bultmann

German theologian Rudolph Bultmann (1884-1976) discounts historical Christ
claiming biblical sources are "fragmentary and often legendary". Update: See:
Vielhauer, Philipp; Geschichte der urchristlichen Literatur (History of early
Christian Literature), Berlin 1975, p. 10f. This is a textbook for students of
Protestant theology in Germany! (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1962-5 Second Vatican Council

John XXIII (1958-63) introduces 16 edicts aimed at renewing "ourselves and the
flocks committed to us".

Year: 1968 Ulster

Scores are killed during riots after Catholics protest exclusion from Northern
Ireland economy; Protestant terrorists respond with bombs, guns and burning.

Year: 1970-90 Lives lost

3000 lives are lost in Northern Ireland between 1970 and 1990 as result of
hostilities between Protestants and Catholics.

Year: 1970-80 Catholic wealth

Vatican becomes third wealthiest nation behind America and Japan.

Year: 1978 John Paul II

John Paul II (1978+) reaffirms support of conservative moral traditions and
banning women priests.

Year: 1978 People's Temple

913 die after former Methodist minister and Bible cult leader Rev Jim Jones
tells followers he is Messiah and they should commit "revolutionary suicide".

Year: 1981 Sherry Matulis

Activist Sherry Matulis (1931+) says "if every criminal and inhumane act ever
committed were traced to its root cause, that root would be buried deep in
religion".

Year: 1983 Darkley, Ireland

3 worshipers are killed and 7 wounded after Catholic terrorists with automatic
weapons burst into Protestant church in Ireland.

Year: 1985 Ulster

54 are killed, 916 wounded, 516 arrested and 31 kneecapped during Catholic and
Protestant terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland.

Year: 1988 Armenia

100 people are killed during religious riots between Christian Armenians and
Shiite Muslims.

Year: 1989 Jimmy Bakker

US televangelist and former Assemblies of God minister Jimmy Bakker is
convicted of bilking 114,000 Christian followers out of $250 million.

Year: 1991 Gulf War

US and allies invade Iraq.

Year: 1993 Branch Davidians

In the conflagration of Feb. 1993 in Waco (Texas) 74 people died, among them 21
children and 2 pregnant women. 73 died by burning but the leader (Koresh) was
found with a bullet in his head, i.e. he chose a more convenient death by
suicide while his Christian followers to die cruelly by burning (like heretics
at the stake). The Christian sect illegally acquired half-automatic and
automatic weapons and trained its members in rifle practice in order "to
prepare the apocalypse". Similar to a herd of animals, e.g. of wolves, where
only the leader has the right to mate the females, the Christian leader ordered
his female members to dissolve the marriage with their husbands because Jesus
"Christ" told him being the only one to have sex with them. Having established
a sexual paradise for himself, he sired 14 children, among them even a child
with the wife of his deputy. Sexual misdemeanor and crimes are reported already
from the outset of Christianity until to today (e.g. sexual abuse of children),
even on Jesus "Christ"[i], finally even by that what the Christians call "Holy
Writ" (see: 1Co 5:1)[ii]. Early Christians regarded "Eucharist" as that what we
today call swinger parties.[iii]

[i] See: H. Atrott, "Eunuch" Jesus Caught with Naked Man in The Act, 2000, on:
Source Link, last call on: 03/20/2009

[ii] Text of 1Co5:1 according to NRSV: "It is actually reported that there is
sexual immorality among you, and of a kind that is not found even among pagans;
for a man is living with his father's wife."

[iii] See G W Foote and J M Wheeler write: "... that Christians were charged
with promiscuous lewdness and other crimes in their assemblies. Origen also
puts the crimes with which Christians were charged to the account of the
Ophites and Cainites. Yet the evidence of Justin Martyr proves that such
charges were brought against the Christians before these sects existed.
Tertullian, indeed, after becoming a Montanist, divulged the fact that in the
Church which he had before so zealously defended the young men lay with their
sisters in the Agape, and wallowed in wantonness and luxury." Crimes of
Christianity, chapter: 1, London, 1887, electronically published on: Source
Link - last call on: 03/23/2008

(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1994 Gerald Ridsdale

Victorian Catholic priest Father Gerald Ridsdale (1929-) becomes Australia's
most notorious pedophile after receiving 18-year sentence for child sex abuse.

Year: 1994 Rwanda Genocide

Verdict handed down in 1998: "A court in Rwanda has sentenced two Roman
Catholic priests to death for their role in the genocide of 1994, in which up
to a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed  The priests were convicted
of involvement in two massacres. In one, they were accused of organizing the
killing of about 2,000 Tutsis by bulldozing the church in which they were
sheltering at Nyange in the western Kibuye region. The bulldozer driver was
sentenced to life imprisonment. Different sections of the Rwandan church have
been widely accused of playing an active role in the genocide of 1994 (in which
about four up to five millions were massacred) but this is the first time
priests have been sentenced to death inside Rwanda." BBC News, 04/18/1998, on:
Source Link, last call 04/27/2008, see also: MvMuslims, Archive for the
'Christian Crimes' Category, on: Source Link , last call 04/27/2008 (Thanks to
contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 1997 Rudolph Kos

Texas Catholic priest Father Rudolph Kos (1945-) receives 3 life sentences and
his church is ordered to pay record $190 million damage bill for child sex
abuse.

Year: 1997 Heaven's Gate

87 die after Bible cult leader Marshall Applewhite tells followers they should
"graduate" to meet Jesus behind Hale-Bopp comet.

Year: 1998 Brazil

6 people, including 3 children, are beaten to death by United Pentecostal
Church of Brazil members who believe they are possessed by Devil.

Year: 1998 Alabama bomber

Christian fundamentalist Eric Rudolph becomes FBI's most wanted fugitive after
Alabama abortion clinic bombing leaves 1 policeman dead and 1 nurse critically
wounded.

Year: 1999 Nora Wall

Former Sisters of Mercy nun Nora Wall (1948-), nicknamed "Sister Antichrist",
becomes first woman in Ireland to receive maximum life sentence for rape.

Year: 1999 Catholic wealth

Finance author Avro Manhattan claims Catholic Church in 1999 "will have
indirect or direct control over one third of all sources of wealth in Western
society".

Year: 1999 Pat Robertson

Newspapers estimate US evangelist Pat Robertson's Christian empire, including
TV station, diamond mine and university, is worth $312 million.

Year: 1999 Billy Graham

Newspapers estimate US evangelist Billy Graham's Christian empire, which has
over 10 million followers, grosses $100 million annually.

Year: 1999 Dr George Carey Archbishop of Canterbury

on July 31 causes shockwaves after announcing in millennium speech: "... we
cannot ...know (that) he (Jesus) was raised ...from the dead." In the same
speech the supreme Anglican Archbishop confessed that Christianity contributed
to the Holocaust on the Jews, played "a part in the victimization of the Jews
in the Middle Ages and in Nazi Germany" and that Christianity "is a 'stumbling
block" to peace in Northern Ireland." The archbishop further added that
Christianity "contributed to the oppression of women, to policies of
imperialism, slavery and the repression of free speech..." Source: Reuters,
July 31, 1999, posted to the web on: 08/01/1999,on: Source Link last call of
this webpage 08/14/2008 (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 2000 Anglican wealth

Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey criticizes Western society for worshiping
wealth just weeks before media reveals UK Anglican Church earned  4.4 billion
in 1999.

Year: 2000 Anglican arms investment

Media reports UK Anglican Church owned shares totaling over  20 million in
military tank and helicopter manufacturer, GKN.

Year: 2000 Indonesia

512 Muslims are slaughtered or reported missing during religious battles in
which Christians, with 28 lives lost, are described in Australian media as
being "more ruthless" than Muslims.

Year: 2000 Uganda

Over 1000 lives are lost in suicide-murder involving members of Ugandan
Christian cult Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God.

Year: 2001 Bush bombs Iraq

Christian US president George Bush orders bombing of Iraq, killing 8 people
including 3 children. Media describes air strike as powerful announcement of
newly elected president's presence on world stage.

Year: 2001 Christian world declares war

As any good Christian knows, the best way to deal with an enemy is not to love
them but simply to blow them away ... Christian President George W. Bush
declares "God told me to invade Iraq". As of 2008, more than 4000 US soldiers
are dead from the decision, tens or hundreds of thousands of Iraqis are
estimated to be dead, uncounted numbers beyond that on all sides are maimed,
injured and FUBAR'd in other ways. Meanwhile, oil and military corporations
associated with Bush, Cheney and their upper echelon pals are reaping record
profits, while the US deficit soars out of control and the economy teeters on
the verge of collapse from the continued funneling into the pockets of those
corporations' elite class of stockholders not just the people's tax money, but
trillions of dollars borrowed from other countries that will have to be paid
back with interest by Americans' children, grandchildren and
great-grandchildren.

Year: 2003 Australia

From 1991-2003, 395 Christian church persons, mostly priests, become condemned
by courts because of sexual abuse of children, only in Australia and only in
that period of time. Source: Edited by antichrist.com.au: AN A-Z OF 395
AUSTRALIAN PEDOPHILE PRIESTS & OTHER CHRISTIAN ABUSERS SINCE 1991, Australian
church offenders register, on: http://web.archive.org/web/20030203062013/
www.antichrist.com.au/ (Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 2007 Argentina

"The Rev. Christian von Wernich, who worked as a police chaplain during the
military dictatorship, was found guilty of involvement in seven murders, 31
cases of torture and 42 kidnappings. He is the first Catholic priest prosecuted
in connection with human rights violations in Argentina, where at least 12,000
people were killed during the military regime from 1976 to 1983."[ii] New York
Times 10/10/2007, on: Source Link, last call 04/27/2008, see also: Mv Muslims,
loc. cit. on: http://seenuatoll.com/mvmuslims/index.php/category/
christian-crimes/page/3/ , last call on: 04/27/2008 (Thanks to contributing
editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 2009 Ireland

Mass-Felonies of Christian "Love" in Ireland, at least for a whole Century,
presumably since Ireland has become Christian A recent report of the Irish
government on abuse of children revealed that rape and violence are perpetrated
during the whole 20th century in Catholic orphanages and schools, i.e. since
generations, presumably since Ireland has become Christian. (For time before
the 20th century there are no investigations). Since the report says that as
well the authorities as the population knew about those felonies[i], it is to
infer that Christian clergies are criminals with impunity. Only the known cases
of sexual abuse and violence on children in Christian facilities in Ireland are
not several hundreds but several thousands[ii], i.e. crimes in Irish-Christian
facilities are the rule and no exception. Peter Tyrrell, an Irish author and
victim of Christian crimes "described his wartime confinement in a Nazi
prisoner-of-war camp as 'a tea party' compared with what he endured (as a
child) in (Christian facilities in) Ireland." [iii]The Christian predators
(thieves' cant: "good shepherds") obviously regard humans depending on them
(thieves' cant: sheep) as their preys on which they can unleash their
depravities (thieves' cant: "love") and criminal instincts (thieves' cant:
"charities") unassailably since with impunity.

[i] See: "An unholy secret that still haunts Ireland", Timesonline, http://
www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/guest_contributors/
article6381318.ece, last call 05/31/2009 [ii] See: Ibidem [iii] Ibidem
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year: 2010 Jos, Nigeria

Modern day Holy Wars. January 20, 2010. Nearly 300 people killed and hundreds
more wounded in three days of clashes between Christians and Muslims in central
Nigeria in the city of Jos. The fighting started on Sunday when Christian
youths protested against the construction of a mosque. Source: http://
www.presstv.ir/detail.aspx?id=116601 ionid=351020505 Last call 02/05/2010
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

Year 2010 - Northern Ireland

February 5th - According to EURONEWS (a broadcast of the European Union) war
among Catholics and Protestants has cost 3,600 lives so far. Source: http://
www.euronews.net/2010/02/05/n-ireland-parties-reach-devolution-deal/ Last call
02/05/2010
(Thanks to contributing editor Hans H. Atrott)

"Civilization will not attain to its perfection until the last stone from the
last church falls on the last priest" ~Emile Zola

Lord, save me from your followers!

