Bible Verses Rarely Read on Sunday

Bible verses that preachers and religious teachers ignore. 
 

  • About

Posted by: edhensley | December 24, 2015

Contradictions in the Christmas Story

    Matthew 1

    The Genealogy of Jesus

    1A record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ the son of David, the son of
    Abraham:

    2Abraham was the father of Isaac,

    …

    16and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born
    Jesus, who is called Christ.

    17Thus there were fourteen generations in all from Abraham to David,
    fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to
    the Christ.

    The Birth of Jesus Christ

    18This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about: His mother Mary was
    pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was
    found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. 19Because Joseph her
    husband was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public
    disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly.

    20But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in
    a dream and said, “Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home
    as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
    21She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus,
    because he will save his people from their sins.”

    22All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the
    prophet: 23″The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and
    they will call him Immanuel” —which means, “God with us.”

    24When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him
    and took Mary home as his wife. 25But he had no union with her until she
    gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus.

    Matthew 2

    The Visit of the Magi

    1After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod,
    Magi from the east came to Jerusalem 2and asked, “Where is the one who has
    been born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to
    worship him.”

    3When King Herod heard this he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him.
    4When he had called together all the people’s chief priests and teachers of
    the law, he asked them where the Christ was to be born. 5″In Bethlehem in
    Judea,” they replied, “for this is what the prophet has written:

    6″ ‘But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,

    are by no means least among the rulers of Judah;

    for out of you will come a ruler

    who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.’”

    7Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time
    the star had appeared. 8He sent them to Bethlehem and said, “Go and make a
    careful search for the child. As soon as you find him, report to me, so
    that I too may go and worship him.”

    9After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they
    had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place
    where the child was. 10When they saw the star, they were overjoyed.
    11On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they
    bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures and
    presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh. 12And having
    been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their
    country by another route.

    The Escape to Egypt

    13When they had gone, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream.
    “Get up,” he said, “take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt. Stay
    there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill
    him.” 14So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and
    left for Egypt, 15where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was
    fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: “Out of Egypt I
    called my son.”

    slaughter_innocents

    Slaughter of the innocents, from brickbible.com.

     

    16When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was
    furious, and he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its
    vicinity who were two years old and under, in accordance with the time he
    had learned from the Magi. 17Then what was said through the prophet
    Jeremiah was fulfilled:

    18″A voice is heard in Ramah,

    weeping and great mourning,

    Rachel weeping for her children

    and refusing to be comforted,

    because they are no more.”

    The Return to Nazareth

    19After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in
    Egypt 20and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother and go to the land
    of Israel, for those who were trying to take the child’s life are dead.”

    21So he got up, took the child and his mother and went to the land of
    Israel. 22But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place
    of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Having been warned in a
    dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, 23and he went and lived in a
    town called Nazareth. So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets:
    “He will be called a Nazarene.”

    Luke 2

    The Birth of Jesus

    1In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be
    taken of the entire Roman world. 2(This was the first census that took
    place while Quirinius was governor of Syria.) 3And everyone went to his own
    town to register.

    4So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to
    Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of
    David. 5He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married
    to him and was expecting a child. 6While they were there, the time came for
    the baby to be born, 7and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She
    wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no room
    for them in the inn.

    The Shepherds and the Angels

    8And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch
    over their flocks at night. 9An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the
    glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. 10But the
    angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy
    that will be for all the people. 11Today in the town of David a Savior has
    been born to you; he is Christ the Lord. 12This will be a sign to you: You
    will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.”

    13Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel,
    praising God and saying,

    14″Glory to God in the highest,

    and on earth peace to men on whom his favor rests.”

    15When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to
    one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened,
    which the Lord has told us about.”

    16So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby, who was
    lying in the manger. 17When they had seen him, they spread the word
    concerning what had been told them about this child, 18and all who heard it
    were amazed at what the shepherds said to them. 19But Mary treasured up all
    these things and pondered them in her heart. 20The shepherds returned,
    glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen,
    which were just as they had been told.

    Jesus Presented in the Temple

    21On the eighth day, when it was time to circumcise him, he was named Jesus
    , the name the angel had given him before he had been conceived.

    22When the time of their purification according to the Law of Moses had
    been completed, Joseph and Mary took him to Jerusalem to present him to the
    Lord 23(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male is
    to be consecrated to the Lord”), 24and to offer a sacrifice in keeping with
    what is said in the Law of the Lord: “a pair of doves or two young
    pigeons.”

    25Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon, who was righteous and
    devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit
    was upon him. 26It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he
    would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. 27Moved by the Spirit,
    he went into the temple courts. When the parents brought in the child Jesus
    to do for him what the custom of the Law required, 28Simeon took him in his
    arms and praised God, saying:

    29″Sovereign Lord, as you have promised,

    you now dismiss[d] your servant in peace.

    30For my eyes have seen your salvation,

    31which you have prepared in the sight of all people,

    32a light for revelation to the Gentiles

    and for glory to your people Israel.”

    33The child’s father and mother marveled at what was said about him.
    34Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother: “This child is
    destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel, and to be a
    sign that will be spoken against, 35so that the thoughts of many hearts
    will be revealed. And a sword will pierce your own soul too.”

    36There was also a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe
    of Asher. She was very old; she had lived with her husband seven years
    after her marriage, 37and then was a widow until she was eighty-four.[e]
    She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying.
    38Coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke
    about the child to all who were looking forward to the redemption of
    Jerusalem.

    39When Joseph and Mary had done everything required by the Law of the Lord,
    they returned to Galilee to their own town of Nazareth. 40And the child
    grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was
    upon him.

    Luke 3

    ^23Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began his ministry.
    He was the son, so it was thought, of Joseph,^24 the son of Heli, the son
    of Matthat,

    …

I have posted this previously, but will repost annually near December 25.

Super Gospel

These two stories contain many internal contradictions (they conflict with each
other) and external contradictions (they conflict with know facts of
history). I will demonstrate these contradictions to my Christian friends in
the hope that they will become enlightened this holiday season.

As Dr. Bart Ehrman notes in his books, most Christians do not believe in a
gospel, but rather they believe in a “super gospel.”  The Christmas story is an
example of a story from a “super gospel.”  There is no gospel in the New
Testament where both wise men and shepherds visit Jesus. The wise men visit in
Matthew and the shepherds visit in Luke. By combining these two separate
stories, Christians create a “super story.”  The authors of Matthew and Luke
probably never imagined that their two books would be placed next to each other
(and Mark and John) in a single collection of books. Each author took existing
legends of Jesus and adapted the legends for their particular agendas.

Geneaologies

As previously noted (rarebible.wordpress.com/2015/12/14/
who-is-josephs-daddy-contradictory-genealogies-in-matthew-and-luke), the
genealogies of Jesus are completely different. In Matthew, Jacob is the father
of Joseph, but in Luke, Heli is the father of Joseph. The lists from David to
Joseph are completely different.

Jesus is not Immanuel

Matthew 1:22 says the parents will name the baby Immanuel in fulfillment of
Isaiah 7:14. That verse, however is not a messianic prophecy but mentions a
baby as a sign for Ahaz. Furthermore the Hebrew Masoretic text and most
translations of the bible indicate that the virgin will call the baby Immanuel.
Mary does not do that, and nowhere in the New Testament is Jesus ever called
Immanuel.  Please see the following post for more information on that topic:
https://rarebible.wordpress.com/2009/09/13/
mary-loses-her-virginity-isaiah-7-in-the-new-english-bible/.

Herod (reign ended 4 BC) and Quirinius (reign started 6 AD) never reigned at
the same time

Matthew claims Jesus was born during the reign of King Herod. Luke claims Jesus
was born while Quirinius was governor of Assyria. However, Herod died 10 years
before Quirinius became governor. Either Matthew or Luke is wrong on this
issue, or they are both wrong. Only one the is certain: the Bible contains an
error regarding the year Jesus was born.

Massacre of the Innocents not recorded in history

Matthew claims Herod killed all boys near Bethlehem who were 2 or under. No
other gospel makes this claim. There is no evidence outside the Bible of any
atrocity like this. Historians recorded many things about Herod. We know he was
born around 74 BC, that he died in 4 BC, and that he expanded the 2nd Temple in
Jerusalem (destroyed in 70 AD but 4 walls, including the famous wailing wall,
exit today). It is recorded that he improved water sources, built water
supplies, built Massada and Herodium, leased copper mines, killed his wife and
two sons, and did much else. The massacre of the innocents is missing from any
historical record. There are many amazing stories in the bible that are not
recorded in historical records.

The senseless census is not recorded in history

There is a historical census recorded during the time of Quirinius.  However,
that census and no other Roman census ever required anyone to return to their
ancestral homes. If you think about it, why would anyone care where your
ancestors lived 1000 years ago?

Luke has no Trip to Egypt, Matthew has no trip to Jerusalem

In Matthew, Jesus is born in his home town of Bethlehem, they flee immediately
to Egypt, and upon their return from Egypt they travel directly to Nazareth to
avoid the son of Herod.

In Luke, Mary and Joseph start in their home town Nazareth, travel to Bethlehem
for a census, go to Jerusalem, and then return to their home town of Nazareth.

Many apologists try to create a super story in which they combine the travel of
the two stories above into one journey. This is impossible. Luke specifically
mentions circumcision on the eighth day and the required purification time.
This refers to Leviticus 12, which states when a boy is born the mother is
unclean for 7 days, the foreskin is removed on the 8th day, and she must not
touch holy objects for 33 days (if Jesus were a girl, Mary would be unclean for
14 days and could not touch holy objects for 66 days).  Luke 39 notes that when
this 33 day period was complete they returned to Galilee.  A trip to Egypt is
not mentioned at all!

Stories Created to Fulfill Prophecy

As previously noted, Matthew and Luke probably never thought their stories
would be next to each other in one book. They created the stories about the
birth of Jesus to fulfill two Old Testament prophecies: 1) that Jesus was born
of a virgin; 2) that Jesus of Nazareth was born in Bethlehem. An angel visits
Joseph in Matthew 1:18-21, and an angel visits Mary in Luke 1:26-38.

As previously noted, the “prophecy” that Jesus would be born of a virgin is not
really in the Old Testament. Anyone who takes an honest look at Isaiah 7 and 8
would not come to the conclusion that this is a prophecy that the messiah would
be born 1000 years later to a virgin and named Jesus. There were numerous
stories of miraculous births and children of women fathered by gods at the time
the New Testament stories were created. Hercules is an example of someone
believed to have been born of an earthly woman and a god. Alexander the Great
and Augustus Caesar are examples of known historical figures who had stories of
miraculous births and supernatural fathers. There are hundreds of additional
examples. It was a common idea 2000 years ago that an important person would
have a miraculous birth and/or a supernatural father.

It is likely that there was a Rabbi named Jesus from the town of Nazareth. The
name Jesus is simply the Greek form of Joshua. Jesus was a very common name in
the middle east 2000 years ago, just as Jesus is a very common name in Mexico
today. Since this Jesus was known to be from Nazareth, Matthew and Luke had to
invent ways to have him born in Bethlehem. As noted above, Matthew made
Bethlehem the home town, and Nazareth became a safe place to return to avoid
the son of Herod. Luke made Nazareth the home town, and Bethlehem a place to go
for a census. What Matthew and Luke never realized is that when their books
were placed in the same bible, their books would be providing evidence that the
stories were fabricated.

Bible publishers are aware of the contradictions, so they add subtitles. For
example, Matthew 2 includes a subtitle that says “The Return To Nazareth”. The
original scriptures do not contain this text at all.

When reading all these stories, we should remember what Luke admits in Luke
1:1-4. “Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been
fulfilled among us, ^2 just as they were handed down to us by those who from
the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word.” These are not stories of
eye witnesses, but are stories that have been “handed down”. These stories
evidently included some embellishments that reflected mythological elements of
the time.

 

3 Comments

Posted in Christianity, Contradictions

Posted by: edhensley | December 14, 2015

Who is Joseph’s Daddy? Contradictory Genealogies in Matthew and Luke

    From "The Bible Comically Illustrated", 1892

    Illustration from “New Testament Stories Comically Illustrated”, 1892

    Matthew 1:1 A record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ the son of David, the
    son of Abraham:
    2Abraham was the father of Isaac,
    Isaac the father of Jacob,
    Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
    3Judah the father of Perez and Zerah, whose mother was Tamar,
    Perez the father of Hezron,
    Hezron the father of Ram,
    4Ram the father of Amminadab,
    Amminadab the father of Nahshon,
    Nahshon the father of Salmon,
    5Salmon the father of Boaz, whose mother was Rahab,
    Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth,
    Obed the father of Jesse,
    6and Jesse the father of King David.
    David was the father of Solomon, whose mother had been Uriah’s wife,
    7Solomon the father of Rehoboam,
    Rehoboam the father of Abijah,
    Abijah the father of Asa,
    8Asa the father of Jehoshaphat,
    Jehoshaphat the father of Jehoram,
    Jehoram the father of Uzziah,
    9Uzziah the father of Jotham,
    Jotham the father of Ahaz,
    Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
    10Hezekiah the father of Manasseh,
    Manasseh the father of Amon,
    Amon the father of Josiah,
    11and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the
    exile to Babylon.
    12After the exile to Babylon:
    Jeconiah was the father of Shealtiel,
    Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
    13Zerubbabel the father of Abiud,
    Abiud the father of Eliakim,
    Eliakim the father of Azor,
    14Azor the father of Zadok,
    Zadok the father of Akim,
    Akim the father of Eliud,
    15Eliud the father of Eleazar,
    Eleazar the father of Matthan,
    Matthan the father of Jacob,
    16and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born
    Jesus, who is called Christ.
    17Thus there were fourteen generations in all from Abraham to David,
    fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to
    the Christ.

    Luke 3:23 Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began his
    ministry. He was the son, so it was thought, of Joseph,
    the son of Heli, 24the son of Matthat,
    the son of Levi, the son of Melki,
    the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
    25the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos,
    the son of Nahum, the son of Esli,
    the son of Naggai, 26the son of Maath,
    the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein,
    the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
    27the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa,
    the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel,
    the son of Neri, 28the son of Melki,
    the son of Addi, the son of Cosam,
    the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
    29the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer,
    the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat,
    the son of Levi, 30the son of Simeon,
    the son of Judah, the son of Joseph,
    the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
    31the son of Melea, the son of Menna,
    the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan,
    the son of David, 32the son of Jesse,
    the son of Obed, the son of Boaz,
    the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon,
    33the son of Amminadab, the son of Ram,
    the son of Hezron, the son of Perez,
    the son of Judah, 34the son of Jacob,
    the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham,
    the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
    35the son of Serug, the son of Reu,
    the son of Peleg, the son of Eber,
    the son of Shelah, 36the son of Cainan,
    the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem,
    the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
    37the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch,
    the son of Jared, the son of Mahalalel,
    the son of Kenan, 38the son of Enosh,
    the son of Seth, the son of Adam,
    the son of God.

This post was originally presented in June, 2009. I have decided to repost
every December.

According to Matthew, Joseph’s father was Jacob (v. 16).
According to Luke, Joseph’s father was Heli (v. 23).

The genealogies are completely different between King David and Joseph. 
Matthew’s genealogy goes through Solomon, while Luke’s goes through Nathan. 
Luke has 42 generations from David to Jesus, while Matthew has only 27 from
David to Jesus. Matthew has a total of 42 from Abraham to Jesus, while, Luke
has a total of 77 from God to Jesus. The major problem has always been the
generations between David and Joseph.

This contradiction has been a problem for Christian apologists for centuries.
Here are proposed solutions:

That Joseph had two fathers—one natural and one legal—as a result of a levirate
marriage involving uterine brothers.
That the legal line of inheritance is traced throughout one of the genealogies.
That Luke’s genealogy is actually through Mary rather than her husband Joseph.
That Matthew’s genealogy is actually through Mary rather than her husband
Joseph.
That phrases like “son of Jacob” does not literally mean a son of Jacob but
could mean a descendant of Jacob.
That one or both of the genealogies are incorrect.

A levirate marriage occurs when, upon the death of a childless man, his brother
would marry the widow in order to produce a son for the deceased man. This was
proposed by Africanus in the 3rd century in his letter to Aristides. However,
there is nothing in the bible that indicates that either genealogy was the
result of such a marriage. This example shows that this contradiction was
recognized by early Christians. I added the illustration from “The Bible
Comically Illustrated”, which was published in 1892, in part to show that this
is one of the most well known problems of the bible. If belief in Jesus is so
important, why would god publish contradictory genealogies.

There is nothing in either Matthew or Luke that claims a genealogy is that of
Mary. Some claim that since Matthew lists four women (Tamar, Rahab, Ruth and
Bathsheba) that it is a women’s genealogy. Why mention those four women and
omit Mary, the mother of Jesus? Answers in Genesis, the organization that runs
the creation museum, claims Luke traces Mary and Matthew traces Joseph: http://
www.answersingenesis.org/articles/2009/03/02/
contradictions-whats-in-a-fathers-name. They call their solution “simple,” yet,
they write several paragraphs of complex explanation that would be very simple
if the word “Mary” were to have been included in Luke’s genealogy. In order to
explain this contradiction, they in effect have to add words to the bible.
Nowhere in the bible does it state that Luke’s genealogy is that of Mary.

There is nothing in either Matthew or Luke that claims a genealogy is a legal
line of inheritance and not biological.

The claim that “son of so and so” means only descendant of so and so is used by
some old earth creationists. They point to other verses in the bible where
someone like Jesus claims to be a son of David. I have found two problems with
this. First of all, David had sons named Nathan and Solomon, which are used in
the genealogies of Luke and Matthew. When it says “Nathan, the son of David”,
how are readers of the bible supposed to know whether or not Nathan is David’s
son or if he is some other descendant? Secondly, Matthew explicitly lists 3
sets of 14 generations. Why say 14 generations if “son of David” could mean 100
generations? Lastly, what is the point of including a genealogy if it does not
show parent-child relationships?

The solution to this contradiction that makes the most sense is that one or
both genealogies were fabricated. The authors of Matthew and Luke never
intended for their books to be in a single bible where they could be compared.
Each book was written to stand on its own. Each author wanted to get Jesus born
in Bethlehem of a virgin as a descendant of David in order to fulfill
prophecies. They created completely different birth stories and genealogies in
order to do this. Since they were not comparing notes, their stories contain
contradictions.

I thought I would add the explanatory text from “New Testament
Stories Comically Illustrated”. There is also an “Old Testament Stories
Comically Illustrated”.

From "New Testament Stories Comically Illustrated", 1892.

From “New Testament Stories Comically Illustrated”, 1892.

 

Leave a Comment

Posted in Christianity, Contradictions

Posted by: edhensley | December 6, 2015

Do God and the Bible Forbid Christmas Trees?

    Jeremiah 10 NIV

    evil_tree

    http://www.redbubble.com/people/giarctterrab/works/
    9662075-evil-christmas-tree?p=photographic-print

    1 Hear what the LORD says to you, O house of Israel. 2 This is what the
    LORD says:
    “Do not learn the ways of the nations
    or be terrified by signs in the sky,
    though the nations are terrified by them.
    3 For the customs of the peoples are worthless;
    they cut a tree out of the forest,
    and a craftsman shapes it with his chisel. 4 They adorn it with silver and
    gold;
    they fasten it with hammer and nails
    so it will not totter.

    King James Version

    ^3For the customs of the people are vain: for one cutteth a tree out of the
    forest, the work of the hands of the workman, with the axe.

    Hebrew Masoretic Text
    3 For the customs of the peoples are vanity; for it is but a tree which one
    cutteth out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman with the
    axe.
    Septuagint
    3 because the precepts of the nations are vain: there is a tree from the
    forest, cut down, a work of a craftsman, and a molten image.

    5 Like a scarecrow in a melon patch,
    their idols cannot speak;
    they must be carried
    because they cannot walk.
    Do not fear them;
    they can do no harm
    nor can they do any good.”

I originally posted this in 2010. The comments on this blog heat up every year.
I changed the title from “God and the Bible Forbid Christmas Trees” to “Do God
and the Bible Forbid Christmas Trees?” Like almost all Christian doctrines and
beliefs, the answer to this question depends upon the interpretation of the
scripture. I am reposting so comments can be more clearly directed.

This passage is often ignored by Christians at Christmas, because it appears to
forbid cutting down a tree, bringing it into your home, and decorating it.
There are several Christian sects today that forbid Christmas trees due to this
passage. This first post laments the change of “axe” to “chisel” by some
translations.

http://av1611.com/kjbp/ridiculous-kjv-bible-corrections/Christmas-Trees.html

http://rcg.org/books/ttooc.html

http://amightywind.com/hanukkah/truthchristmas2.htm

Other Christian sects claim that Christmas trees are fine.

https://www.gci.org/christmas/trees

http://www.bibleinfo.com/en/questions/are-christmas-trees-referenced-bible

Most Christians who are aware of this verse claim it is about idolatry and not
about Christmas trees. This is an Old Testament passage, so obviously it could
not be a Christmas tree. Also, they note that in many modern translations the
word chisel is used, indicating that the tree was not really a tree but a
carved idol. The NIV uses the word chisel. The KJV uses the word axe, as does
the Hebrew Masoretic Text.  The Septuagint does not use axe or chisel, but
calls the tree a “molten image” in verse 3. Once again, the different
translations are a source of confusion.

Further verses show that the context of this passage is clearly about the
worship of idols. However, verses 3 and 4 are still strong statements against
cutting down trees and bringing them into a house to decorate, and these verses
are a direct quote from God.

Furthermore, God states clearly that he does not like the customs of other
people (non Jews).  There are multiple non-Jewish origins of decorating trees
that pre-date the Christmas tree. Ancient (and modern) pagans would cut boughs
of evergreens for decoration in their homes. Ancient Egyptians decorated their
homes with palm tree branches. Greeks decorated evergreen trees as part of
worship of their god Adonia. Pagan Romans would decorate trees with metal and
replicas of Bacchus, a fertility god. Germans tied fruit and candles to trees
in honor of their god Woden.  Christians can not accurately claim that
decorating a tree is not related to pagan idol worship.

The second-century Christian theologian Tertullian condemned those Christians
who celebrated the winter festivals, or decorated their houses with laurel
boughs in honor of the emperor:  “Let them over whom the fires of hell are
imminent, affix to their posts, laurels doomed presently to burn: to them the
testimonies of darkness and the omens of their penalties are suitable. You are
a light of the world, and a tree ever green. If you have renounced temples,
make not your own gate a temple.” Other Christian leaders condemned the “pagan”
practice of christmas trees, including the Pilgrim’s second governor, William
Bradford. The Jehovah’s Witnesses, the Worldwide Church of God (recent post at
http://worldwidechurchgod.blogspot.com/2009/12/
call-for-christmas-tree-sellers-to.html) and many fundamentalist Christian
groups still forbid Christmas trees. Notice the Worldwide Church of God link
mentions Jeremiah 10 as well. And before I get lots of comments from members of
the “true” church of God, I will acknowledge that there are multiple splinter
groups of the Worldwide Church of God and they differ in beliefs on this issue.

worldwide_church_of_god_splits

Most Christians, however, continue to ignore this passage and any other passage
in the bible that contradicts their opinions. Others are aware of this passage
but interpret it differently.

5 Comments

Posted in Bizarre Laws, Christianity, History

Posted by: edhensley | June 7, 2015

God Tries to Murder Moses; Foiled by a Foreskin

God approaches Moses at a lodging place. thebricktestament.com

God approaches Moses at a lodging place. thebricktestament.com

God seeks to kill Moses. thebricktestament.com

God seeks to kill Moses. thebricktestament.com

Zipporah took a flint knife, cut off her son’s foreskin. thebricktestament.com

Zipporah took a flint knife, cut off her son’s foreskin. thebricktestament.com

Zipporah touched Moses’ feet with it. “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to
me”. thebricktestament.com

Zipporah touched Moses’ feet with it. “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to
me”. thebricktestament.com

So the LORD let him [Moses] alone. thebricktestament.com

So the LORD let him [Moses] alone. thebricktestament.com

        Exodus 4:19 Now the LORD had said to Moses in Midian, “Go back to
        Egypt, for all the men who wanted to kill you are dead.” 20 So Moses
        took his wife and sons, put them on a donkey and started back to Egypt.
        And he took the staff of God in his hand.

        21 The LORD said to Moses, “When you return to Egypt, see that you
        perform before Pharaoh all the wonders I have given you the power to
        do. But I will harden his heart so that he will not let the people go.
        22 Then say to Pharaoh, ‘This is what the LORD says: Israel is my
        firstborn son, 23 and I told you, “Let my son go, so he may worship
        me.” But you refused to let him go; so I will kill your firstborn son.’
        ”

    24 At a lodging place on the way,the LORD met Moses and was about to kill
    him. 25 But Zipporah took a flint knife, cut off her son’s foreskin and
    touched Moses’ feet with it. “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me,”
    she said. 26 So the LORD let him alone. (At that time she said “bridegroom
    of blood,” referring to circumcision.)

This is a repeat of a May 2009 post with images from thebricktestament.com
added.

Another bizarre story. God wants to kill Moses. Why? Who knows? Here is a link
from Christian apologetics (http://www.apologeticspress.org/articles/2326).
They conclude that Moses must have sinned in order for god to desire to kill
him. Perhaps the sin was that he did not do what god asked him to do in the
previous verses. Perhaps the sin was that he and his Midianite wife Zipporah
had not circumcised their son. The fact is, this story does not provide the
reason why god wants to kill Moses.

Nonetheless, Zipporah cuts off a part of her son’s penis and touches the blood
to Moses’ feet. But was his feet actually his penis? My wife attended a
conservative christian college and was told that the word “foot” or “feet”
often was a euphamism for penis. Many conservative christian websites also note
that, such as this one: http://www.beliefnet.com/Faiths/Christianity/2002/02/
When-Foot-Means-Something-Else-Euphemisms-In-The-Bible.aspx.

Whether Zipporah puts penis blood on Moses’ feet or penis, the blood prevents
god from killing Moses.

This story is bizarre and illogical.

2 Comments

Posted in Bizarre Stories, Evil God

Posted by: edhensley | January 25, 2015

Sons Of God Mate With Earth Women

Genesis 6

When human beings began to increase in number on the earth and daughters were
born to them, ^2 the sons of God saw that the daughters of humans were
beautiful, and they married any of them they chose.

thebricktestament.com - Sons of God saw the daughters of humans and married any
of them they chose.

thebricktestament.com – Sons of God saw the daughters of humans and married any
of them they chose.

^3 Then theLord said, “My Spirit will not contend with humans forever, for they
are mortal; their days will be a hundred and twenty years.”

^4 The Nephilim were on the earth in those days—and also afterward—when the
sons of God went to the daughters of humans and had children by them. They were
the heroes of old, men of renown.

thebricktestament.com - The sons of God went into the daughters of men.

thebricktestament.com – The sons of God went into the daughters of humans.

thebricktestament.com - The sons of God had children with the daughters of me.

thebricktestament.com – The sons of God had children with the daughters of men.

thebricktestament.com - The Nephilim were on the earth in those days. They were
the heroes of old, men of renown.

thebricktestament.com – The Nephilim were on the earth in those days. They were
the heroes of old, men of renown.

^5 The Lord saw how great the wickedness of the human race had become on the
earth, and that every inclination of the thoughts of the human heart was only
evil all the time. ^6 The Lord regretted that he had made human beings on the
earth, and his heart was deeply troubled. ^7 So the Lord said, “I will wipe
from the face of the earth the human race I have created—and with them the
animals, the birds and the creatures that move along the ground—for I regret
that I have made them.”

thebricktestament - I will wipe fro the face of the earth the human race I have
created.

thebricktestament – I will wipe fro the face of the earth the human race I have
created.

 

King James Version, Verse 4

^4 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the
sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them,
the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.

 

 

This is a repeat of an earlier post in March, 2009.

I included the King James for verse 4 because the word giants is more familiar
than the word Nephilim.

These verses always puzzled me while a Christian. When bible school teachers
discussed the flood, they would never (at least I can never remember)
start with Gen 6:1. They would start with Gen 6:5 or later. Having read the
bible through cover to cover twice and having studied it on numerous occasions,
these verses always struck me as strange.

There were so many questions to answer.

Who were the sons of God? Was one of them Jesus? Are these brothers of Jesus?
Are these angels? Were there daughters of God?

Who were the Giants or Nephilim? What happened to them?

Anyone’s guess is as good as anyone else’s because other than these 4 verses
nothing else is written about this phenomenal event. I was once told that the
giants died in the flood, but if that is the case then we should expect to find
fossil evidence of them somewhere.

My search for these answers lead me to the book of Enoch (great-grandfather of
Noah). This Jewish apocryphal book answers some of these questions. It is not
considered part of the Christian bible except in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

Parts of this book would make a great science fiction movie! The next paragraph
I copied from Wikipedia to summarize Enoch.

“The Book of Enoch describes the fall of the Watchers, the angels who fathered
the Nephilim. The fallen angels went to Enoch to intercede on their behalf with
God after he declared to them their doom. The remainder of the book describes
Enoch’s visit to Heaven in the form of a vision, and his revelations.”

If you want to belittle this book by saying it is not part of the bible, you
have another problem. The book of Enoch is quoted in the New Testament in Jude!

Jude 14 Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied about these men: “See, the
Lord is coming with thousands upon thousands of his holy ones 15to judge
everyone, and to convict all the ungodly of all the ungodly acts they have done
in the ungodly way, and of all the harsh words ungodly sinners have spoken
against him.”

Enoch 1:9 “And behold! He cometh with ten thousands of His holy ones To execute
judgment upon all, And to destroy all the ungodly: And to convict all flesh Of
all the works of their ungodliness which they have ungodly committed, And of
all the hard things which ungodly sinners have spoken against Him.”

Let’s get back to Genesis 6.

The phrase “heroes of old” implies that this story was written long after this
alleged event happened. Since this was only the 6th chapter of the first book
of the bible, I decided (around age 20) to investigate biblical chronologies.
My Sunday school teachers made it sound like the bible was written immediately
after events took place by eye witnesses. Research from archaeologists,
historians, language experts, and biblical scholars reveal that was not the
case. More importantly to me, the bible’s words prove that the stories of
Genesis were written thousands of years after they allegedly occur.

The book of Genesis was written at least 2850 years after its alleged events
occurred because it mentions places and events that did not occur until
thousands of years later. It was not written immediately after the flood or
after the exodus from Egypt. I have several examples of this in my power point
presentation, but I shall mention just one easy to understand example here:

Genesis 36:31 These were the kings who reigned in Edom before any Israelite
king reigned

This verse must have been written AFTER at least one Israelite king had
reigned. Saul does not become king until around 1050 B.C., so Genesis was
written AFTER Saul became king, about 2850 years after creation (biblical
timelines vary).

Keeping this in mind, the most logical explanation for these verses is that
they are a reference to other religions that we call mythologies today. The
Jews were exposed to many religions in which stories were told about gods and
sons of gods having sex with earth women. For example, in Greek mythology
Hercules is the son of Zeus and an earth woman. Hercules was “a hero of old, a
man of renown.” I used Hercules as a more familiar example, admitting that
Greek myths were probably not the ones responsible for these verses. However,
the idea of gods having super babies with earth women is a concept in many
ancient religions of 1000 B.C.

Whether or not you accept this explanation, you have to admit that these verses
are strange. I find no meaning in these verses for telling me how I can live a
better life.

The Book of Enoch can be found online at many websites, including at http://
book-ofenoch.com/.

12 Comments

Posted in Bizarre Stories

Posted by: edhensley | December 21, 2014

Contradictions in the Christmas Stories

    Matthew 1

    The Genealogy of Jesus

    1A record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ the son of David, the son of
    Abraham:

    2Abraham was the father of Isaac,

    …

    16and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born
    Jesus, who is called Christ.

    17Thus there were fourteen generations in all from Abraham to David,
    fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to
    the Christ.

    The Birth of Jesus Christ

    18This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about: His mother Mary was
    pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was
    found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. 19Because Joseph her
    husband was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public
    disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly.

    20But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in
    a dream and said, “Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home
    as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
    21She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus,
    because he will save his people from their sins.”

    22All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the
    prophet: 23″The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and
    they will call him Immanuel” —which means, “God with us.”

    24When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him
    and took Mary home as his wife. 25But he had no union with her until she
    gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus.

    Matthew 2

    The Visit of the Magi

    1After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod,
    Magi from the east came to Jerusalem 2and asked, “Where is the one who has
    been born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to
    worship him.”

    3When King Herod heard this he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him.
    4When he had called together all the people’s chief priests and teachers of
    the law, he asked them where the Christ was to be born. 5″In Bethlehem in
    Judea,” they replied, “for this is what the prophet has written:

    6″ ‘But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,

    are by no means least among the rulers of Judah;

    for out of you will come a ruler

    who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.’”

    7Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time
    the star had appeared. 8He sent them to Bethlehem and said, “Go and make a
    careful search for the child. As soon as you find him, report to me, so
    that I too may go and worship him.”

    9After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they
    had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place
    where the child was. 10When they saw the star, they were overjoyed.
    11On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they
    bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures and
    presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh. 12And having
    been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their
    country by another route.

    The Escape to Egypt

    13When they had gone, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream.
    “Get up,” he said, “take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt. Stay
    there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill
    him.” 14So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and
    left for Egypt, 15where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was
    fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: “Out of Egypt I
    called my son.”

    16When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was
    furious, andhe gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its
    vicinity who were two years old and under, in accordance with the time he
    had learned from the Magi. 17Then what was said through the prophet
    Jeremiah was fulfilled:

    18″A voice is heard in Ramah,

    weeping and great mourning,

    Rachel weeping for her children

    and refusing to be comforted,

    because they are no more.”

    The Return to Nazareth

    19After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in
    Egypt 20and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother and go to the land
    of Israel, for those who were trying to take the child’s life are dead.”

    21So he got up, took the child and his mother and went to the land of
    Israel. 22Butwhen he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of
    his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Having been warned in a dream,
    he withdrew to the district of Galilee, 23and he went and lived in a town
    called Nazareth. So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets: “He
    will be called a Nazarene.”

    Luke 2

    The Birth of Jesus

    1In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be
    taken of the entire Roman world. 2(This was the first census that took
    place while Quirinius was governor of Syria.) 3And everyone went to his own
    town to register.

    4So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to
    Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of
    David. 5He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married
    to him and was expecting a child. 6While they were there, the time came for
    the baby to be born, 7and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She
    wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no room
    for them in the inn.

    The Shepherds and the Angels

    8And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch
    over their flocks at night. 9An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the
    glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. 10But the
    angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy
    that will be for all the people. 11Today in the town of David a Savior has
    been born to you; he is Christ the Lord. 12This will be a sign to you: You
    will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.”

    13Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel,
    praising God and saying,

    14″Glory to God in the highest,

    and on earth peace to men on whom his favor rests.”

    15When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to
    one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened,
    which the Lord has told us about.”

    16So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby, who was
    lying in the manger. 17When they had seen him, they spread the word
    concerning what had been told them about this child, 18and all who heard it
    were amazed at what the shepherds said to them. 19But Mary treasured up all
    these things and pondered them in her heart. 20The shepherds returned,
    glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen,
    which were just as they had been told.

    Jesus Presented in the Temple

    21On the eighth day, when it was time to circumcise him, he was named Jesus
    , the name the angel had given him before he had been conceived.

    22When the time of their purification according to the Law of Moses had
    been completed, Joseph and Mary took him to Jerusalem to present him to the
    Lord 23(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male is
    to be consecrated to the Lord”), 24and to offer a sacrifice in keeping with
    what is said in the Law of the Lord: “a pair of doves or two young
    pigeons.”

    25Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon, who was righteous and
    devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit
    was upon him. 26It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he
    would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. 27Moved by the Spirit,
    he went into the temple courts. When the parents brought in the child Jesus
    to do for him what the custom of the Law required, 28Simeon took him in his
    arms and praised God, saying:

    29″Sovereign Lord, as you have promised,

    you now dismiss[d] your servant in peace.

    30For my eyes have seen your salvation,

    31which you have prepared in the sight of all people,

    32a light for revelation to the Gentiles

    and for glory to your people Israel.”

    33The child’s father and mother marveled at what was said about him.
    34Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother: “This child is
    destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel, and to be a
    sign that will be spoken against, 35so that the thoughts of many hearts
    will be revealed. And a sword will pierce your own soul too.”

    36There was also a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe
    of Asher. She was very old; she had lived with her husband seven years
    after her marriage, 37and then was a widow until she was eighty-four.[e]
    She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying.
    38Coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke
    about the child to all who were looking forward to the redemption of
    Jerusalem.

    39When Joseph and Mary had done everything required by the Law of the Lord,
    they returned to Galilee to their own town of Nazareth. 40And the child
    grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was
    upon him.

    Luke 3

    ^23Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began his ministry.
    He was the son, so it was thought, of Joseph,^24 the son of Heli, the son
    of Matthat,

    …

     

This is a repeat of an earlier post. If these contradictions were in the Koran
concerning the birth of Mohammad, no Christian would accept the pathetic
excuses offered by Christian apologists.

 

SuperGospel

These two stories contain many internal contradictions (they conflict with each
other) and external contradictions (they conflict with know facts of
history). I will demonstrate these contradictions to my Christian friends in
the hope that they will become enlightened this holiday season.

As Dr. Bart Ehrman notes in his books, most Christians do not believe in a
gospel, but rather they believe in a “super gospel.”  The Christmas story is an
example of a story from a “super gospel.”  There is no gospel in the New
Testament where both wise men and shepherds visit Jesus. The wise men visit in
Matthew and the shepherds visit in Luke. By combining these two separate
stories, Christians create a “super story.”  The authors of Matthew and Luke
probably never imagined that their two books would be placed next to each other
(and Mark and John) in a single collection of books. Each author took existing
legends of Jesus and adapted the legends for their particular agendas.

Geneaologies

As previously noted (rarebible.wordpress.com/2009/06/21/who-is-josephs-daddy),
the genealogies of Jesus are completely different. In Matthew, Jacob is the
father of Joseph, but in Luke, Heli is the father of Joseph. The lists from
David to Joseph are completely different.

Jesus is not Immanuel

Matthew 1:22 says the parents will name the baby Immanuel in fulfillment of
Isaiah 7:14. That verse, however is not a messianic prophecy but mentions a
baby as a sign for Ahaz. Furthermore the Hebrew Masoretic text and most
translations of the bible indicate that the virgin whill call the baby
Immanuel. Mary does not do that, and nowhere in the New Testament is Jesus ever
called Immanuel.  Please see the followig post for more information on that
topic:https://rarebible.wordpress.com/2009/09/13/
mary-loses-her-virginity-isaiah-7-in-the-new-english-bible/.

Herod (reign ended 4 BC) and Quirinius (reign started 6 AD) never reigned at
the same time

Matthew claims Jesus was born during the reign of King Herod. Luke claims Jesus
was born while Quirinius was governor of Assyria. However, Herod died 10 years
before Quirinius became governor. Either Matthew or Luke is wrong on this
issue, or they are both wrong. Only one the is certain: the Bible contains an
error regarding the year Jesus was born.

Massacre of the Innocents not recorded in history

Matthew claims Herod killed all boys near Bethlehem who were 2 or under. No
other gospel makes this claim. There is no evidence outside the Bible of any
atrocity like this. Historians recorded many things about Herod. We know he was
born around 74 BC, that he died in 4 BC, and that he expanded the 2nd Temple in
Jerusalem (destroyed in 70 AD but 4 walls, including the famous wailing wall,
exit today). It is recorded that he improved water sources, built water
supplies, built Massada and Herodium, leased copper mines, killed his wife and
two sons, and did much else. The massacre of the innocents is missing from any
historical record. There are many amazing stories in the bible that are not
recorded in historical records.

The senseless census is not recorded in history

There is a historical census recorded during the time of Quirinius.  However,
that census and no other Roman census ever required anyone to return to their
ancestral homes. If you think about it, why would anyone care where your
ancestors lived 1000 years ago?

Luke has no Trip to Egypt, Matthew has no trip to Jerusalem

In Matthew, Jesus is born in Bethlehem, they flee immediately to Egypt, and
upon their return from Egypt they travel directly to Nazareth to avoid the son
of Herod.

In Luke, Mary and Joseph start in Nazareth, travel to Bethlehem for a census,
go to Jerusalem, and then return to their home town of Nazareth.

Many apologists try to create a super story in which they combine the travel of
the two stories above into one journey. This is impossible. Luke specifically
mentions circumcision on the eighth day and the required purification time.
This refers to Leviticus 12, which states when a boy is born the mother is
unclean for 7 days, the foreskin is removed on the 8th day, and she must not
touch holy objects for 33 days (if Jesus were a girl, Mary would be unclean for
14 days and could not touch holy objects for 66 days).  Luke 39 notes that when
this 33 day period was complete they returned to Galilee.  A trip to Egypt is
not mentioned at all!

15 Comments

Posted in Contradictions

Posted by: edhensley | November 2, 2014

Slaves Ordered to Submit to Masters in New Testament

1 Peter 2 New International Version

^18 Slaves, in reverent fear of God submit yourselves to your masters, not only
to those who are good and considerate, but also to those who are harsh. ^19 For
it is commendable if someone bears up under the pain of unjust suffering
because they are conscious of God. ^20 But how is it to your credit if you
receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing
good and you endure it, this is commendable before God. ^21 To this you were
called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, that you
should follow in his steps.

^22 “He committed no sin,
    and no deceit was found in his mouth.”^[e]

^23 When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate; when he
suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges
justly. ^24 “He himself bore our sins” in his body on the cross, so that we
might die to sins and live for righteousness; “by his wounds you have been
healed.” ^25 For “you were like sheep going astray,”^[f] but now you have
returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.

  • 1 Peter 2:22 Isaiah 53:9
  • 1 Peter 2:25 Isaiah 53:4,5,6 (see Septuagint)

Exodus 21, Leviticus 25:44-46, and other verses in the Old Testament are often
cited as places in the bible where slavery was endorsed. The apologist often
responds with the overused refrain, “But that was the Old Testament…”  However,
there are places in the New Testament that endorse slavery as well.

First of all, slaves are ordered to obey their masters, even the harsh masters,
even to the point of bearing “pain of unjust suffering”. Slaves who endure
unjust pain are following the examples of Jesus!  It should also be noted that
Isaiah 53 (often used incorrectly as a prophecy of Jesus) is here used to
justify slaves suffering pain.

A typical modern apology of this passage can be found at https://bible.org/
seriespage/12-submission-slaves-masters-1-peter-218-25.

    “(2) In the Bible, slavery is not commended, but neither is it condemned as
    a social evil the Christian master should cease to practice or the
    Christian slave should seek to overthrow”

    …

    (3) Peter does not assume that all masters are cruel, but he does assume
    that some will be, and that this will result in the unjust suffering of
    many Christian slaves. Unlike Paul’s epistles, Peter does not address both
    slaves and masters. He addresses only slaves. In particular, he speaks to
    slaves who will be harshly treated by their masters. This is consistent
    with his theme of suffering righteously for the sake of Christ.

    …

    First, suffering which is pleasing to God must be innocent suffering. Peter
    has been speaking of righteous conduct in the midst of an unrighteous
    society. He is speaking here of suffering which is the result of godliness,
    not the result of sin. Who would praise a man for enduring suffering that
    is the result of doing wrong?

    What wrongs would be especially tempting for a servant? The first would be
    disobedience; another would be disrespect, and yet another laziness.

Even the modern apologists admit that nowhere in the bible is slavery
condemned. A suffering slave is “consistent with his theme of suffering
righteously for the sake of Christ.” Being a suffering slave is being like
Jesus, so why try to end slavery?

“Suffering which is pleasing to God must be innocent suffering”.  So the
apologists is admitting that the Christian god is pleased when he watches
innocent suffering, such as the suffering of the holocaust or the recent
suffering of enslaved women at the hands of ISIS. Why should Christians try to
end any type of innocent suffering if it is pleasing to god?

Both Old Testament and New Testament verses were used by the Confederate States
of American to promote slavery. I will quote from The Views of the Baptists,
RELATIVE TO THE COLOURED POPULATION In the United States IN A COMMUNICATION To
the Governor of South-Carolina (http://eweb.furman.edu/~benson/docs/
rcd-fmn1.htm), written by Reverend Dr. Richard Furman, founder of Furman
University of South Carolina. Notice he quotes Leviticus 25:44-46 and mentions
the New Testament. Bold text is my emphasis, not Furman’s.

    On the lawfulness of holding slaves, considering it in a moral and
    religious view, the Convention think it their duty to exhibit their
    sentiments, on the present occasion, before your Excellency, because they
    consider their duty to God, the peace of the State, the satisfaction of
    scrupulous consciences, and the welfare of the slaves themselves, as
    intimately connected with a right view of the subject… for the right of
    holding slaves is clearly established by the Holy Scriptures, both by
    precept and example. In the Old Testament, the Isrealites were directed to
    purchase their bond-men and bond-maids of the Heathen nations; except they
    were of the Canaanites, for these were to be destroyed. And it is declared,
    that the persons purchased were to be their “bond-men forever;” and an
    “inheritance for them and their children.” They were not to go out free in
    the year of jubilee, as the Hebrews, who had been purchased, were: the line
    being clearly drawn between them.*[See Leviticus XXV. 44, 45, 46, &c.] In
    example, they are presented to our view as existing in the families of the
    Hebrews as servants, or slaves, born in the house, or bought with money: so
    that the children born of slaves are here considered slaves as well as
    their parents. And to this well known state of things, as to its reason and
    order, as well as to special privileges, St. Paul appears to refer, when he
    says, “But I was free born.”

    In the New-Testament, the Gospel History, or representation of facts,
    presents us a view correspondent with that, which is furnished by other
    authentic ancient histories of the state of the world at the commencement
    of Christianity. The powerful Romans had succeeded, in empire, the polished
    Greeks; and under both empires, the countries they possessed and governed
    were full of slaves. Many of these with their masters, were converted to
    the Christian Faith, and received, together with them into the Christian
    Church, while it was yet under the ministry of the inspired Apostles. In
    things purely spiritual, they appear to have enjoyed equal privileges; but
    their relationship, as masters and slaves, was not dissolved. Their
    respective duties are strictly enjoined. The masters are not required to
    emancipate their slaves; but to give them the things that are just and
    equal, forbearing threatening; and to remember, they also have a master in
    Heaven. The “servants under the yoke”…mentioned by Paul to Timothy, as
    having “believing masters,” are not authorized by him to demand of them
    emancipation, or to employ violent means to obtain it; but are directed to
    “account their masters worthy of all honour,” and “not to despise them,
    because they were brethren” in religion; “but the rather to do them
    service, because they were faithful and beloved partakers of the Christian
    benefit.” Similar directions are given by him in other places, and by other
    Apostles. And it gives great weight to the argument, that in this place,
    Paul follows his directions concerning servants with a charge to Timothy,
    as an Evangelist, to teach and exhort men to observe this doctrine.  

    Had the holding of slaves been a moral evil, it cannot be supposed, that
    the inspired Apostles, who feared not the faces of men, and were ready to
    lay down their lives in the cause of their God, would have tolerated it,
    for a moment, in the Christian Church. If they had done so on a principle
    of accommodation, in cases where the masters remained heathen, to avoid
    offences and civil commotion; yet, surely, where both master and servant
    were Christian, as in the case before us, they would have enforced the law
    of Christ, and required, that the master should liberate his slave in the
    first instance. But, instead of this, they let the relationship remain
    untouched, as being lawful and right, and insist on the relative duties.

    In proving this subject justifiable by Scriptural authority, its morality
    is also proved; for the Divine Law never sanctions immoral actions.

    The Christian golden rule, of doing to others, as we would they should do
    to us, has been urged as an unanswerable argument against holding slaves.
    But surely this rule is never to be urged against that order of things,
    which the Divine government has established; nor do our desires become a
    standard to us, under this rule, unless they have a due regard to justice,
    propriety and the general good.

    The result of this inquiry and reasoning, on the subject of slavery, brings
    us, sir, if I mistake not, very regularly to the following
    conclusions:–That the holding of slaves is justifiable by the doctrine and
    example contained in Holy writ; and is; therefore consistent with Christian
    uprightness, both in sentiment and conduct. That all things considered, the
    Citizens of America have in general obtained the African slaves, which they
    possess, on principles, which can be justified; though much cruelty has
    indeed been exercised towards them by many, who have been concerned in the
    slave-trade, and by others who have held them here, as slaves in their
    service; for which the authors of this cruelty are accountable. That
    slavery, when tempered with humanity and justice, is a state of tolerable
    happiness; equal, if not superior, to that which many poor enjoy in
    countries reputed free. That a master has a scriptural right to govern his
    slaves so as to keep it in subjection; to demand and receive from them a
    reasonable service; and to correct them for the neglect of duty, for their
    vices and transgressions; but that to impose on them unreasonable, rigorous
    services, or to inflict on them cruel punishment, he has neither a
    scriptural nor a moral right… That it is the positive duty of servants to
    reverence their master, to be obedient, industrious, faithful to him, and
    careful of his interests; and without being so, they can neither be the
    faithful servants of God, nor be held as regular members of the Christian
    Church. That as claims to freedom as a right, when that right is forfeited,
    or has been lost, in such a manner as has been represented, would be
    unjust; and as all attempts to obtain it by violence and fraud would be
    wicked; so all representations made to them by others, on such censurable
    principles, or in a manner tending to make them discontented; and finally,
    to produce such unhappy effects and consequences, as been before noticed,
    cannot be friendly to them (as they certainly are not to the community at
    large,) nor consistent with righteousness: Nor can the conduct be
    justified, however in some it may be palliated by pleading benevolence in
    intention, as the motive.

15 Comments

Posted in Christian Morality, Evil God

Posted by: edhensley | July 1, 2014

The Christian Fairy Tale vs. Scholarly Christianity

Tree of Christian sects form an Eastern Orthodox point of view.

Tree of Christian sects from an Eastern Orthodox point of view.

Most Christians know very little about there church history. They have no idea
about the wide variety of beliefs of the early Christian sects, including the
 Ebionites, Marcionites, Arionists, and Gnostics. Most have no idea about the
history and development of the multitude of biblical canons or the forging of
orthodox Christian theology. Many fundamentalist Christians are lead to believe
the following fairy tale, which I will later contrast with the facts about
early Christianity.

The Christian Fairy Tale

  • God, the creator of the universe, chose the Jews to be his people.
  • Jews were monotheistic (believed in only 1 god) from the start. Only
    rebellious Jews ever worshipped other gods.
  • God gave Jews the Hebrew Bible (which contains the exact same books as the
    Old Testament of the bible of my sect of Christianity) as a guide on how to
    please Him and live good lives. This included many animal sacrifices.
  • The Jews constantly disobeyed God.
  • The Jews were punished by having their kingdom(s) destroyed and by being
    scattered throughout the world.

  • 
  • Jesus was born around 0 A.D. (Anno Domini, in the year of our Lord) to the
    virgin Mary. (I will use CE, and BCE)
  • He is both the god of the Old Testament (OT) and is the son of the god of
    the OT. He is also the Holy Spirit.
  • Around the age of 30 he began his ministry.
  • Around the age of 33 he was sacrificed on the cross. He rose from the dead
    3 days later and ascended to heaven.
  • His sacrifice atones those who believe in him for their sins. There is no
    need for further animal sacrifices or obedience to most OT diet and
    lifestyle laws other than sex restrictions.
  • True Christians will go to heaven for eternity when they die.
  • All others will burn forever in hell after death.
  • The early Christian church was united and had one perfect set of doctrines.
  • The New Testament (NT) is the perfect word of god that completes the OT.
  • Early Christians had no disagreement about the 27 books of the NT, which
    were established shortly after 33 CE.
  • The doctrines and canon of [insert name of Christian sect of childhood]
    have been the doctrines of Christians since the time of Christ.
  • Christianity is confirmed by the Dead Sea Scrolls and other archaeological
    evidence.

The above picture shows a tree of Christian sects from the point of view of the
Eastern Orthodox church. Many other churches teach a similar history of
Christianity, claiming that their particular sect is exactly like the original
Christian church and all other branches are flawed. Notice that the Easter
Orthodox part of the tree has beautiful green leavers while the other sects
have ugly brown leaves. Also notice that the base of the tree is Jesus and the
apostles in Jerusalem in 33 CE.

Here is a more generic tree of Christian sects from Wikipedia.

Tree of Christian sects from Wikipedia.

Tree of Christian sects from Wikipedia.

 

This tree is a little better, because it shows some divisions prior to the
Catholic – Eastern Orthodox split. However, it still shows one base known as
“Early Christianity”. Wikipedia also notes that “Protestantism in general, and
not just Restorationism, claims a direct connection with Early Christianity.”
 For example, the Church of Christ is one of many sects that believes they are
most similar to the original Christian church.

A Mormon blogger to the Wikipedia tree of Christian sects and altered it to
show that Mormonism restored original Christianity.

A Mormon blogger to the Wikipedia tree of Christian sects and altered it to
show that Mormonism restored original Christianity.

 

None of the above trees are accepted by scholars (fundamentalist Christian or
secular) as fully accurate. The tree of Christian sects below is from the
University of California. It more accurately reflects the true nature of the
development of Christianity. Most importantly, it represents the multitude of
Christian sects that existed prior to the council of Nicea.

Tree of Christian sects from the University of California.

Tree of Christian sects from the University of California.

 

Notice that the base of the tree is very wide and has many arrows leading to
the Imperial Church. These arrows represent the multitude of sects that existed
prior to the Council of Nicea in 325 CE.

The following map (also from the University of California) shows many sects
that existed at 325 CE, including the Ebionism in Jerusalem, Marcionism in
Caesarea, Arianism in Alexandria, Gnosticism in Damascus, and others. The next
section of this blog will focus on what some of these early Christian sects
believed.

 

Map displaying Christian sects and their major areas of influence at the time
of the Council of Nicea.

Map displaying Christian sects and their major areas of influence at the time
of the Council of Nicea.

 

Scholarly Christianity

Judaism

  • Ancient Hebrews evolved from the ancient Canaanite Religion. El Elyon was
    the most high god of manygods.
  • Ancient Hebrews became monolithic. They believed in many gods, but Hebrews
    should only worship their god named Yahweh.
  • Ancient Hebrews evolved into monotheism around 6th century BCE, believing
    Yahweh was the only god.
  • Jews lived under the subjugation of many foreign rules, including Romans in
    the first century.
  • Jews rebelled against Rome in 66 – 73 CE. The Jerusalem Second Temple was
    destroyed in 70 CE. Masada fell in 73 CE

Coins by Jewish rebels in 68 CE proclaim "Jerusalem The Holy."

Coins by Jewish rebels in 68 CE proclaim “Jerusalem The Holy.”

 

Roman coins around 73 CE show Jewish soldiers kneeling before Romans.

Roman coins around 73 CE show Jewish soldiers kneeling before Romans.

 

Depiction of the evolution of Old Testament texts. LXX is the Septuagint, MT is
the Masoretic Text.

Depiction of the evolution of Old Testament texts. LXX is the Septuagint, MT is
the Masoretic Text.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Example of Jewish editing.

  • 
        Deuteronomy 32 (New International Version):8 When the Most High gave
        the nations their inheritance, when he divided all mankind, he set up
        boundaries for the peoples according to the number of the sons of
        Israel.[b] 9 For the Lord’s portion is his people, Jacob his allotted
        inheritance.

  • 
        b: Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls (see also Septuagint) sons of God

  • Many scholars believe this passage in the DSS and LXX form supports
    polytheism. The Most High (Elyon) god divided mankind into nations, giving
    each son of god their allotment. The “Lord’s” (Jewish God’s) share were the
    children of Jacob.

Masoretic Text or Septuagint? 

  • The authors of the New Testament (NT) used the Greek Septuagint (LXX) when
    quoting OT books.
  • Catholics (46 books in OT), Orthodox (51 books), Ethiopians (46 books, or
    50 splitting 1 & 2 Kings, etc), and others use the LXX.
  • Protestants use the Hebrew MT and have 39 book in OT.
  • Modern Jews use the Hebrew MT.
  • The Dead Sea Scrolls (DSS – Hebrew) are used by all sides to claim that the
    Septuagint supports their canons (set of scriptures considered holy).

Jesus Is Not An Important Person During His Time

  • Jesus was not important historically, as he was not mentioned by any
    contemporary historians, Jewish, Roman, Greek, or otherwise.
  • The general scholarly consensus is that Jesus was a Gallilean Jew born
    between 7 and 2 BCE. who condemned other Jews in particular of not
    following the laws or the spirit of the laws.
  • Jesus is believed to have been crucified by the Romans for rebellion
    against their authority around 30-36 CE.
  • There is a small minority of scholars who claim Jesus never existed. Some
    also claim Nazareth did not exist in the 1st Century.
  • My opinion is that Jesus was a Rabbi who was crucified by Rome. The
    supernatural deeds recorded in the bible are merely legend.

There were multiple versions of early Christianity with a variety of beliefs
about the nature of Jesus and the relationship with Judaism and the OT. 

  • I will describe Ebionites and Marcionites,  Gnostics, Montanism, Arianism
    and proto-orthodox Christianity.
  • There were varieties within the above sects (especially Gnostics), and
    there were other sects not mentioned in this blog.

Ebionites – Very Jewish Christians From Jerusalem

  • 
  • Ebionites were very Jewish Christians.
  • They believed in 1 god.
  • They considered themselves Jews and obeyed the OT laws.
  • Only Christian sect recorded by Eusebius as keeping the Sabbath.
  • They believed Jesus was completely human and not divine.
  • They believed Paul was an arch heretic.
  • http://ebionite.org/ – Claim to be modern Ebionites.
  • Ebionites or similar groups such as Nazareans, were possibly the groups
    chastised by Paul for keeping the OT laws.
  • 
  • Matthew 5 was used by Ebionites to show that followers of Jesus should not
    abandon OT laws.
  • 
      □ 17 “Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I
        have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. 18 For truly I tell
        you, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the
        least stroke of a pen, will by any means disappear from the Law until
        everything is accomplished. 19 Therefore anyone who sets aside one of
        the least of these commands and teaches others accordingly will be
        called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever practices and
        teaches these commands will be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
        20 For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the
        Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the
        kingdom of heaven.

Marcionites – Very Anti-Jewish Christians

  • 
  • Marcionites were Gentiles who claimed Jewish practice was harmful for a
    relationship with god.
  • They were followers or Marcion, a real person in the 2nd century.
  • They believed in two gods, one Jewish and one Christian.
  • They believed Jesus was completely divine and not human.
  • They rejected the Old Testament as a book inspired by the inferior god of
    the Jews.
  • They believed Paul was the one true apostle of Christ.
  • Jesus revealed himself to Paul because the other apostles failed to
    comprehend true Christianity because they were too Jewish.

First Christian Canon Created by Marcion, Who Is Now Considered a Heretic

  • Marcion (a real person considered a heretic by Proto-Orthodox Christianity)
    created the 1st Christian NT Canon around 144 CE. It contained a version of
    the gospel of Luke and 10 of the 13 letters of Paul, namely Romans, 1st &
    2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, 1st & 2nd
    Thessalonians, and Philemon.
  • Marion’s canon rejected the OT, Matthew, and John.
  • 
  • Proto-orthodox canons were a response to the canon created by Marcion.

Gnostics

  • Very spiritual and many widely varying subsets.
  • Believed Jesus was a spirit and did not suffer, but only appeared to
    suffer.
  • They believed in salvation through mysterious knowledge.
  • This world is full of ignorance and suffering; salvation comes not by
    making it better but by escaping it.
  • They had little church structure and taught equality of all members.
  • 
  • Coptic Gnostic texts were discovered in Nag Hamadi, Egypt, in 1945.
      □ The Coptic Apocalypse of Peter:
      □ “He whom you saw on the tree, glad and laughing, this is the living
        Jesus. But this one into whose hands and feet they drive the nails is
        his fleshly part, which is the substitute being put to shame, the one
        who came into being in his likeness. But look at him and me.”
      □ Warns against those who “will cleave to the name of a dead man,
        thinking that they will become pure”.

First Listing Of Four Gospels Is A Response To Gnostics, Against Heresies

  • Around 180 CE, proto-orthodox Christian Bishop Iranaeus wrote Against
    Heresies to show the errors of gnostics.
  • The first time that 4 and only 4 gospels are listed as divinely inspired 
    occurs in an argument against  Gnostics.
  • “It is not possible that the Gospels can be either more or fewer in number
    than they are. For, since there are four zones of the world in which we
    live, and four principal winds, while the Church is scattered throughout
    all the world, and the pillar and ground of the Church is the Gospel and
    the spirit of life; it is fitting that she should have four pillars,
    breathing out immortality on every side, and vivifying men afresh. From
    which fact, it is evident that the Word, the Artificer of all, He that sits
    upon the cherubim, and contains all things, He who was manifested to men,
    has given us the Gospel under four aspects, but bound together by one
    Spirit.” (Against Heresies, 3:11:8)
  • The reasons listed above to have four and only four gospels are considered
    humorous by many, including me.

Montanism – Early Pentecostals

  • 2nd Century Christian sect founded by Montanus.
  • Known as New Prophecy by followers, Montanism by critics.
  • Led to Cataphrygian and Phrygian groups that lasted until the 6th Century.
  • Prophetic movement that called on reliance of the Holy Spirit and a
    conservative personal ethic.
  • Parallels have been drawn to Pentecostals today.
  • Montanus, Prisca and Maximilla spoke via ecstatic visions.
  • Opponents claimed they were possessed by evil spirits.

Arianism – Much of the Nicene Creed is a Response to Their Claim that God and
Jesus are Different

  • 3rd Century sect founded by Arius.
  • Arius asserted that the Son of God was a subordinate entity to God the
    Father.
  • The Son of God did not always exist, but was created by—and is therefore
    distinct from—God the Father.
  • Based on John 14:28 – …If you loved me, you would be glad that I am going
    to the Father, for the Father is greater than I.
  • How could Jesus “go to the Father” if he and the “Father” were the same
    person?
  • How could Jesus and the “Father” be equal if “the Father is greater than
    I”?
  • Deemed a heretic at Nicea in 325 CE
  • Much of the Nicene Creed was written as a response to Arianism.

Proto-Orthodox Christians – All of the above

  • All of the Above Christians.
  • Jesus was a) Human b)Divine c) All of the Above
  • Jesus is a) God the Father b) God the Son c) God the Holy Spirit d) All of
    the Above
  • Christians scripture includes a) the OT b) the NT c) All of the Above (but
    do not have to follow all OT laws)
  • Claimed ancient roots for their religion.
  • Rejected unappealing Jewish practices such as circumcision.
  • Had strong church leadership and hierarchy.
  • Communicated with one another.

Arsenal of the Proto-Orthodox

  • Stressed that they were unified and all the other sects were not unified
    (similar to Church of Christ , Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and other claims
    today).
  • Had their own versions of sense & nonsense, truth & error.
  • Claimed apostolic succession, as opposed to Marcion, Montanus, Arius.
  • Started developing creedsin response.
  • Wrote forgeries and falsifications of their opponents views.
  • Charged non-orthodox with reprobate activity.

Peter's conflict with Simon Magus by Avanzino Nucci, 1620. Simon is on the
right, dressed in black.

Peter’s conflict with Simon Magus by Avanzino Nucci, 1620. Simon is on the
right, dressed in black.

Proto-Orthodox Legends of Simon Magus

  • Simon Magus (a magician and new convert) in Acts 8 is chastised for seeking
    the power to give Holy Spirit to new converts.
  • Little more is said about Simon in the bible, but he is considered the
    source of heretical views in later writings.
  • Many claims of reprobate activity of non-orthodox Christians, including
    several involving Simon Magus.

 

Orthodox Christianity

  • Orthodox Christianity was forged over 3 centuries, culminating in the
    Council of Nicea in 325 CE.
  • The Proto-Orthodox Christians increased in power and started discussing
    their own canons and doctrines (partly due to influence of Marcion and the
    Gnostics).
  • The Roman Emperor Constantine converted to Christianity in 312 CE.
  • Edict of Milan in 313 made Christianity legal.
  • Constantine Ordered the Council of Nicea(present day Iznik, Turkey) in 325
    to settle disagreements on Christian doctrine.
  • The Nicene Creed and Constantinople Creed in 381 formalized Christian
    doctrine.

Painting The Council Of Nicea by F. Pavlovskyi, I. Maksimovych, and A.
Galik and others at the Gate Church of the Trinity, Kiev, 18th Century.

Painting The Council Of Nicea by F. Pavlovskyi, I. Maksimovych, and A.
Galik and others at the Gate Church of the Trinity, Kiev, 18th Century.

 

 

The Nicene Creed Is A Response To Heresy

We believe in one God,
the Father, the Almighty,
maker of heaven and earth,
of all that is, seen and unseen.

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ,
the only Son of God,
eternally begotten of the Father,
God from God, Light from Light,
true God from true God,
begotten, not made,
of one Being with the Father.
Through him all things were made.
For us and for our salvation
he came down from heaven:
by the power of the Holy Spirit
he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary,
and was made man.

[The creed lines above claim that Jesus and God are the same, they are one,
they are divine, and they are human – all responses to the “heretics”.]

For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate;
he suffered death and was buried.
On the third day he rose again
in accordance with the Scriptures;
he ascended into heaven
and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
and his kingdom will have no end.

[The creed lines in bold above refute the heretical claim by Gnostics and
others that Jesus only appeared to die.]

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life,
who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
With the Father and the Son he is worshiped and glorified.
He has spoken through the Prophets.
We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.
We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
We look for the resurrection of the dead,
and the life of the world to come. Amen.

[The creed lines above link the father, son and holy spirit as one. It states
there is only one church, not multiple Christian sects.]

The New Testament – Forged Over Centuries

  • The Christian NT was forged over several centuries.
  • The “heretic” Marcion created the first canon. 
  • Lists and canons were created by several early Christians after Marcion.
  • Constantine ordered Eusebius to produce 50 bibles in 331. He had 340
    scribes working for him to complete this task. No such bible exists today,
    but it is believed that this set influenced future canons.
  • The first list of the currently accepted 27 NT books was not until 367 CE
    in a letter from Athanasius.
  • Many Christians are led to believe that the New Testament was used by the
    Apostles in 34 CE.
  • Many Books Not In The New Testament Today Were Considered Scripture By
    Early Chritianities.
  • Many books in the NT today have been edited. Most changes are
    insignificant, but some are very significant.
  • There are more variations in early Christian manuscripts than there are
    words in the NT.
  • Today, Christian churches generally agree on the books of the NT.
  • See http://www.ntcanon.org/table.shtml for excellent information on the
    development of the New Testament.

Courtesy of Bart Ehrman.

Courtesy of Bart Ehrman. The Codex Sinaiticus is the oldest collection of the
27 books of the New Testament. It also contains the Shepherd of Hermas and the
Epistle of Barnabas. Nothing indicates that these two books are considered of
lesser value than the other 27.

 

Protestants, Catholic, and the Apocrypha

  • Christians still do not agree on books of the OT, and some sects accepts
    additional books.
  • Jewish leaders had there own synods which developed over centuries into
    today’s approved MT.
  • Martin Luther did not like some Catholic doctrines, many of which were
    supported by verses in Maccabees. He got rid of Maccabees by rejecting
    books in the LXX that were not in the MT in his bible. He published the NT
    in 1522 and the OT in 1534.
  • Luther also did not believe in the authority of NT books Hebrews, James,
    Jude and Revelation.

  • The Catholic Church responded by approving the Deuterocanonical books in
    1546. These books are now considered equal in authority to all previously
    canonized books. The vote was 24 yes, 15, no, and 16 abstaining. Only 44%
    of those present approved this important decision! It is now officially
    heretical to question the authority of these books!
  • Protestants started putting these books in an apocryphal (doubtful)
    section, as the 1611 King James Version (KJV) did.
  • Protestants have now removed these books completely, as the official 1895
    KJV did.
  • Today’s official KJV is more recent than The Origin of Species!

Christian Canons Today Have Major Differences

Most Americans think in terms of Protestant and Catholic. However, there are
many other Christian churches, including Ethiopian, Coptic, and Syrian. The
websites below have many lists of accepted texts and can be used to compare the
canons of various modern Christian sects.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Testament

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Testament

http://www.coptic.org/language/bible/bible.htm

http://www.peshitta.org/initial/peshitta.html

http://www.ethiopianorthodox.org/english/canonical/books.html

 

 

13 Comments

Posted in Christianity, History

Posted by: edhensley | March 10, 2014

John And The Bed Bugs

This is a scene from The Acts Of John, St. John Raising Dusiana From The Dead,
that was painted in a chapel around 1300 CE by Giotto. This is an example of
the popularity and endurance of Christian Apocrypha.

This is a scene from The Acts Of John, St. John Raising Dusiana From The Dead,
that was painted in a chapel in 1320 CE by Giotto. This is an example of the
popularity and endurance of Christian Apocrypha.


The Acts Of John

    60 Now on the first day we arrived at a deserted inn, and when we were at a
    loss for a bed for John, we saw a droll matter. There was one bedstead
    lying somewhere there without coverings, whereon we spread the cloaks which
    we were wearing, and we prayed him to lie down upon it and rest, while the
    rest of us all slept upon the floor. But he when he lay down was troubled
    by the bugs, and as they continued to become yet more troublesome to him,
    when it was now about the middle of the night, in the hearing of us all he
    said to them: I say unto you, O bugs, behave yourselves, one and all, and
    leave your abode for this night and remain quiet in one place, and keep
    your distance from the servants of God. And as we laughed, and went on
    talking for some time, John addressed himself to sleep; and we, talking
    low, gave him no disturbance (or, thanks to him we were not disturbed).

    Assumption Of Saint John, also a scene from The Acts Of John by Giotto in
    1320.

    Assumption Of Saint John, also a scene from The Acts Of John by Giotto in
    1320.

    61 But when the day was now dawning I arose first, and with me Verus and
    Andronicus, and we saw at the door of the house which we had taken a great
    number of bugs standing, and while we wondered at the great sight of them,
    and all the brethren were roused up because of them, John continued
    sleeping. And when he was awaked we declared to him what we had seen. And 
    he sat up on the bed and looked at them and said: Since ye have well
    behaved yourselves in hearkening to my rebuke, come unto your place. And
    when he had said this, and risen from the bed, the bugs running from the
    door hasted to the bed and climbed up by the legs thereof and disappeared
    into the joints. And John said again: This creature hearkened unto the
    voice of a man, and abode by itself and was quiet and trespassed not; but
    we which hear the voice and commandments of God disobey and are
    light-minded: and for how long?

This scene from the Acts of John shows John raising Dusiana from the dead is
part of the Santa Maria Novella, painted in 1487-1502 in Strozzi Chapel,
Florence.

This scene from the Acts of John shows John raising Dusiana from the dead is
part of the Santa Maria Novella, painted in 1487- 1502 in Strozzi Chapel,
Florence.



I admit that the above passage is not in any modern bible. But passages such as
this one were considered sacred by many Christians for centuries. This passage
is a part of The Acts Of John. Although some might deem this story too silly to
be in the bible, it is no more silly than a talking snake (Genesis) , a talking
donkey (Numbers 22), dead people coming out of their graves and roaming
Jerusalem (Matthew 27), or Paul shaking a poisonous snake into a fire (Acts
28).

During a recent discussion with a Christian apologist on this blog, it was
claimed that Christians knew early on what texts were legitimate and which
texts were apocryphal. Nothing could be further from the truth.

The first New Testament Canon was written in 144 CE by Marcion, who was
considered a heretic by the groups that would become orthodox. His canon
included 10 letters of Paul and the gospel of Luke (allegedly written by Paul’s
assistant), and it explicitly rejected the Old Testament, Matthew and John.
Marcionites rejected the Old Testament, believed in 2 gods (1 Jewish and 1
Christian), Jesus was completely divine (not human at all), and that Paul was
the one true apostle to whom Jesus appeared after his death because the 12
apostles were not leading properly (due to their being Jews). Marcion’s canon
spurred the proto-orthodox Christians to start creating their own lists.

Around 180 CE, Christian Bishop Iranaeus wrote Against Heresies to debunk the
theology of the Gnostics. It is in this book that we get the first selection of
four and only four gospels. His logic is ridiculous.

    “It is not possible that the Gospels can be either more or fewer in number
    than they are. For, since there are four zones of the world in which we
    live, and four principal winds, while the Church is scattered throughout
    all the world, and the pillar and ground of the Church is the Gospel and
    the spirit of life; it is fitting that she should have four pillars,
    breathing out immortality on every side, and vivifying men afresh. From
    which fact, it is evident that the Word, the Artificer of all, He that sits
    upon the cherubim, and contains all things, He who was manifested to
    men,has given us the Gospel under four aspects, but bound together by one
    Spirit.” (Against Heresies, 3:11:8)

The first complete listing of the 27 books of the New Testament did not occur
until 367 CE in a letter from Athanasius. The oldest collection of these 27
books, the Codex Sinaiticus, also includes The Shepherd Of Hermas and The
Epistle Of Barnabas. These two books are not noted to be of lesser
consideration than the other 27 books.

Many gospels, letters, acts, apocalypses and other apocryphal Christian books
flourished before and after the New Testament canon was finally established.
The paintings above from 1320 and around 1487, show that some of these stories
were popular thousands of years later.

In addition, there is the issue of Deuterocanonical books. At the time the New
Testament was written, the Sepuagint (Greek translation of Hebrew Tanakh, or
Old Testament) was considered authoritative. The authors of the New Testament
quote from the Septuagint. Jewish leaders started abandoning the Septuagint
around 100 CE for multiple reasons, including the desire to rely only on Hebrew
texts and the desire to distance Judaism from a rival religion (Christianity)
that used the Septuagint. The Masoretic text became the Jewish authoritative
text in the middle ages.

To keep this short, Martin Luther did not like some Catholic doctrines that
were in Maccabees, among other books. He placed all the books in the Septuagint
but not in the Masoretic texts in an apocryphal (doubtful) section (he also
doubted NT books Hebrews, James, Jude and Revelation). He published his NT in
1522 and his OT in 1534. The Catholic church responded with the Council of
Trent in 1546. They created the Deuterocacnon to declare that the books in
Luther’s apocrypha were of equal status to the other canonized books. This vote
was passed with 24 yes, 15 no, and 16 abstaining.  Only 44% of those attending
voted to accept these books as equal, but that has been their status in the
Catholic Church ever since. The Eastern Orthodox church also accepts these
books (and a few more) as authoritative.

Catholics and Eastern Orthodox claim the Septuagint (LXX) is authoritative (it
was used by the apostles; it is older; Jews did not have authority over holy
texts after 33 CE, etc.). Protestants claim the Masoretic Text (MT) is
authoritative (it is the official text of the Jews). Both sides claim the Dead
Sea Scrolls (DSS) support their scriptures, but the truth is that the DSS shows
a very fluid Old Testament up until about 100 CE. Some DSS texts match with MT,
some match with LXX, some match with the Samaritan Pentateuch, and some show
completely different origins.

Future versions of the protestant bible, including the 1611 King James,
followed the pattern established by Luther. Official protestant bibles included
the apocryphal books until they were officially removed in the 1895 version of
the King James Version. In summary, the protestant bible is more recent than
The Origin Of Species, but most protestant Christians have no idea about any of
the things I have written about today.

9 Comments

Posted in Bizarre Stories

Posted by: edhensley | December 24, 2013

Contradictions in the Christmas Story (Re-posted)

    Matthew 1

    The Genealogy of Jesus

    1A record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ the son of David, the son of
    Abraham:

    2Abraham was the father of Isaac,

    …

    16and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born
    Jesus, who is called Christ.

    17Thus there were fourteen generations in all from Abraham to David,
    fourteen from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from the exile to
    the Christ.

    The Birth of Jesus Christ

    18This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about: His mother Mary was
    pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was
    found to be with child through the Holy Spirit. 19Because Joseph her
    husband was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public
    disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly.

    20But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in
    a dream and said, “Joseph son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home
    as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
    21She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus,
    because he will save his people from their sins.”

    22All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the
    prophet: 23″The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son,
    and they will call him Immanuel” —which means, “God with us.”

    24When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him
    and took Mary home as his wife. 25But he had no union with her until she
    gave birth to a son. And he gave him the name Jesus.

    Matthew 2

    thebricktestament.com

    thebricktestament.com

    The Visit of the Magi

    1After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod,
    Magi from the east came to Jerusalem 2and asked, “Where is the one who has
    been born king of the Jews? We saw his star in the east and have come to
    worship him.”

    3When King Herod heard this he was disturbed, and all Jerusalem with him.
    4When he had called together all the people’s chief priests and teachers of
    the law, he asked them where the Christ was to be born. 5″In Bethlehem in
    Judea,” they replied, “for this is what the prophet has written:

    6″ ‘But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah,

    are by no means least among the rulers of Judah;

    for out of you will come a ruler

    who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.’”

    7Then Herod called the Magi secretly and found out from them the exact time
    the star had appeared. 8He sent them to Bethlehem and said, “Go and make a
    careful search for the child. As soon as you find him, report to me, so
    that I too may go and worship him.”

    thebricktestament.com

    thebricktestament.com

    9After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they
    had seen in the east went ahead of them until it stopped over the place
    where the child was. 10When they saw the star, they were overjoyed.
    11On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they
    bowed down and worshiped him. Then they opened their treasures and
    presented him with gifts of gold and of incense and of myrrh. 12And having
    been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their
    country by another route.

    The Escape to Egypt

    13When they had gone, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream.
    “Get up,” he said, “take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt. Stay
    there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill
    him.” 14So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and
    left for Egypt, 15where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was
    fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: “Out of Egypt I
    called my son.”

    thebricktestament.com

    thebricktestament.com

    16When Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was
    furious, andhe gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its
    vicinity who were two years old and under, in accordance with the time he
    had learned from the Magi. 17Then what was said through the prophet
    Jeremiah was fulfilled:

    18″A voice is heard in Ramah,

    weeping and great mourning,

    Rachel weeping for her children

    and refusing to be comforted,

    because they are no more.”

    The Return to Nazareth

    19After Herod died, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in
    Egypt 20and said, “Get up, take the child and his mother and go to the land
    of Israel, for those who were trying to take the child’s life are dead.”

    21So he got up, took the child and his mother and went to the land of
    Israel. 22Butwhen he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of
    his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Having been warned in a dream,
    he withdrew to the district of Galilee, 23and he went and lived in a town
    called Nazareth. So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets: “He
    will be called a Nazarene.”

    Luke 2

    The Birth of Jesus

    1In those days Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be
    taken of the entire Roman world. 2(This was the first census that took
    place while Quirinius was governor of Syria.) 3And everyone went to his own
    town to register.

    4So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to
    Bethlehem the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of
    David. 5He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married
    to him and was expecting a child. 6While they were there, the time came for
    the baby to be born, 7and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She
    wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger, because there was no room
    for them in the inn.

    thebricktestament.com

    thebricktestament.com

    The Shepherds and the Angels

    8And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch
    over their flocks at night. 9An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the
    glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. 10But the
    angel said to them, “Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy
    that will be for all the people. 11Today in the town of David a Savior has
    been born to you; he is Christ the Lord. 12This will be a sign to you: You
    will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger.”

    13Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel,
    praising God and saying,

    14″Glory to God in the highest,

    and on earth peace to men on whom his favor rests.”

    thebricktestament.com

    thebricktestament.com

    15When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to
    one another, “Let’s go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened,
    which the Lord has told us about.”

    16So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby, who was
    lying in the manger. 17When they had seen him, they spread the word
    concerning what had been told them about this child, 18and all who heard it
    were amazed at what the shepherds said to them. 19But Mary treasured up all
    these things and pondered them in her heart. 20The shepherds returned,
    glorifying and praising God for all the things they had heard and seen,
    which were just as they had been told.

     

     

     

    Jesus Presented in the Temple

    thebricktestament.com

    thebricktestament.com

    21On the eighth day, when it was time to circumcise him, he was named Jesus
    , the name the angel had given him before he had been conceived.

    22When the time of their purification according to the Law of Moses had
    been completed, Joseph and Mary took him to Jerusalem to present him to the
    Lord 23(as it is written in the Law of the Lord, “Every firstborn male is
    to be consecrated to the Lord”), 24and to offer a sacrifice in keeping with
    what is said in the Law of the Lord: “a pair of doves or two young
    pigeons.”

    25Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon, who was righteous and
    devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit
    was upon him. 26It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he
    would not die before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. 27Moved by the Spirit,
    he went into the temple courts. When the parents brought in the child Jesus
    to do for him what the custom of the Law required, 28Simeon took him in his
    arms and praised God, saying:

    29″Sovereign Lord, as you have promised,

    you now dismiss[d] your servant in peace.

    30For my eyes have seen your salvation,

    31which you have prepared in the sight of all people,

    32a light for revelation to the Gentiles

    and for glory to your people Israel.”

    33The child’s father and mother marveled at what was said about him.
    34Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother: “This child is
    destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel, and to be a
    sign that will be spoken against, 35so that the thoughts of many hearts
    will be revealed. And a sword will pierce your own soul too.”

    36There was also a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe
    of Asher. She was very old; she had lived with her husband seven years
    after her marriage, 37and then was a widow until she was eighty-four.[e]
    She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying.
    38Coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke
    about the child to all who were looking forward to the redemption of
    Jerusalem.

    39When Joseph and Mary had done everything required by the Law of the Lord,
    they returned to Galilee to their own town of Nazareth. 40And the child
    grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was
    upon him.

    Luke 3

    ^23Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when he began his ministry.
    He was the son, so it was thought, of Joseph,^24the son of Matthat, the son
    of Heli, …

I decided to re-post a blog about contradictions in the Christmas story. The
portion below this paragraph are the original. In addition to obvious
contradictions, the story is contradicted by history (timelines of Herod and
Quirinius discussed below) and contains events that should be recorded by other
historians but are not (slaughter of the innocents, star of Bethlehem, census
requiring people to register in the home of their ancestors 1000 years earlier,
etc).

SuperGospel

These two stories contain many internal contradictions (they conflict with each
other) and external contradictions (they conflict with know facts of
history). I will demonstrate these contradictions to my Christian friends in
the hope that they will become enlightened this holiday season.

As Dr. Bart Ehrman notes in his books, most Christians do not believe in a
gospel, but rather they believe in a “super gospel.”  The Christmas story is an
example of a story from a “super gospel.”  There is no gospel in the New
Testament where both wise men and shepherds visit Jesus. The wise men visit in
Matthew and the shepherds visit in Luke. By combining these two separate
stories, Christians create a “super story.”  The authors of Matthew and Luke
probably never imagined that their two books would be placed next to each other
(and Mark and John) in a single collection of books. Each author took existing
legends of Jesus and adapted the legends for their particular agendas.

Geneaologies

As previously noted (rarebible.wordpress.com/2009/06/21/who-is-josephs-daddy),
the genealogies of Jesus are completely different. In Matthew, Jacob is the
father of Joseph, but in Luke, Heli is the father of Joseph. The lists from
David to Joseph are completely different.

Jesus is not Immanuel

Matthew 1:22 says the parents will name the baby Immanuel in fulfillment of
Isaiah 7:14. That verse, however is not a messianic prophecy but mentions a
baby as a sign for Ahaz. Furthermore the Hebrew Masoretic text and most
translations of the bible indicate that the virgin whill call the baby
Immanuel. Mary does not do that, and nowhere in the New Testament is Jesus ever
called Immanuel.  Please see the followig post for more information on that
topic:https://rarebible.wordpress.com/2009/09/13/
mary-loses-her-virginity-isaiah-7-in-the-new-english-bible/.

Herod (reign ended 4 BC) and Quirinius (reign started 6 AD) never reigned at
the same time

Matthew claims Jesus was born during the reign of King Herod. Luke claims Jesus
was born while Quirinius was governor of Assyria. However, Herod died 10 years
before Quirinius became governor. Either Matthew or Luke is wrong on this
issue, or they are both wrong. Only one the is certain: the Bible contains an
error regarding the year Jesus was born.

Massacre of the Innocents not recorded in history

Matthew claims Herod killed all boys near Bethlehem who were 2 or under. No
other gospel makes this claim. There is no evidence outside the Bible of any
atrocity like this. Historians recorded many things about Herod. We know he was
born around 74 BC, that he died in 4 BC, and that he expanded the 2nd Temple in
Jerusalem (destroyed in 70 AD but 4 walls, including the famous wailing wall,
exit today). It is recorded that he improved water sources, built water
supplies, built Massada and Herodium, leased copper mines, killed his wife and
two sons, and did much else. The massacre of the innocents is missing from any
historical record. There are many amazing stories in the bible that are not
recorded in historical records.

The senseless census is not recorded in history

There is a historical census recorded during the time of Quirinius.  However,
that census and no other Roman census ever required anyone to return to their
ancestral homes. If you think about it, why would anyone care where your
ancestors lived 1000 years ago? And what if you had ancestors that came from
multiple locations, as most people would probably have? If I had to return to
my ancestral home of 1000 years ago, I would have to go to England, Ireland,
Scotland, Germany, and Spain at least.

Luke has no Trip to Egypt, Matthew has no trip to Jerusalem

In Matthew, Jesus is born in Bethlehem, they flee immediately to Egypt, and
upon their return from Egypt they travel directly to Nazareth to avoid the son
of Herod.

In Luke, Mary and Joseph start in Nazareth, travel to Bethlehem for a census,
go to Jerusalem, and then return to their home town of Nazareth.

Many apologists try to create a super story in which they combine the travel of
the two stories above into one journey. This is impossible. Luke specifically
mentions circumcision on the eighth day and the required purification time.
This refers to Leviticus 12, which states when a boy is born the mother is
unclean for 7 days, the foreskin is removed on the 8th day, and she must not
touch holy objects for 33 days (if Jesus were a girl, Mary would be unclean for
14 days and could not touch holy objects for 66 days).  Luke 39 notes that when
this 33 day period was complete they returned to Galilee.  A trip to Egypt is
not mentioned at all!

27 Comments

Posted in Christianity, Contradictions

                                Older Posts >>

Categories

  • Bible Prophecy
  • Bizarre Laws
  • Bizarre Stories
  • Christian Morality
  • Christian Prophecy
  • Christianity
  • Contradictions
  • Evil God
  • History
  • Mythology
  • Science Errors

Category

Bible Prophecy Bizarre Laws Bizarre Stories Christianity Christian Morality
Christian Prophecy Contradictions Evil God History Mythology Science Errors

Key Words

Bible Bible Contradictions Bizarre Christianity Christmas Christmas Tree
Circumcision genocide God Jesus Laws Midianites Morality Murder Prophecy rape
Sacrifice slavery

Previous Posts

  • December 2015
  • June 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • November 2014
  • July 2014
  • March 2014
  • December 2013
  • March 2013
  • January 2013
  • September 2012
  • June 2012
  • April 2012
  • March 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • December 2011
  • November 2011
  • September 2011
  • July 2011
  • April 2011
  • November 2010
  • September 2010
  • June 2010
  • April 2010
  • March 2010
  • February 2010
  • January 2010
  • December 2009
  • November 2009
  • October 2009
  • September 2009
  • August 2009
  • July 2009
  • June 2009
  • May 2009
  • April 2009
  • March 2009

Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Join 83 other followers

[                    ]

[Sign me up!]

Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | The Ocean Mist Theme.

Follow

Follow “Bible Verses Rarely Read on Sunday”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 83 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
