Moral Compass

a compendium of religious wickedness.

  • About Copyright
  • Contact Us
  • Frequently Asked Questions
  • House Rules / Comment Policy

 

 1.  
 2. Blog

1 2 3 4 5 6 … 46 Next >>

Canadian Lawmaker Draws Derision By Denying Evolution, Even From His Own Party

Terry Firma

Feb

25

2015

It’s a relief to find that Christian legislators in the U.S. aren’t hogging all
 of North America’s allotment of crazy.

When Ontario’s parliament discussed a new sex-ed curriculum for public schools
today, tempers soon began to fray.

    The morning question period was especially nasty — Education Minister Liz
    Sandals mocked McNaughton and other right-wing Tories saying they “want to
    make the teaching of evolution optional.”

    “That’s not a bad idea,” thundered [Progressive Conservative Party] MPP
    Rick Nicholls (Chatham-Kent-Essex). His heckle provoked groans and
    eye-rolling from some Tories and a death stare from [New Democratic Party]
     MPP Catherine Fife (Kitchener-Waterloo).

[VucmKMQ]

But it was just an ill-considered, spur-of-the-moment outburst, right? Well,
maybe, Nicholls half-clarified afterwards.

    The off-the-cuff remark during a heated debate over the new sex education
    curriculum landed Nicholls (Chatham-Kent-Essex) in hot water with
    Conservative colleagues and left him ridiculed by others. … But Nicholls
    stood by his line when asked about it Wednesday. “For myself, I don’t
    believe in evolution,” Nicholls told reporters.

I still have to hand it to our neighbors Up North: A guy like Nicholls can make
an actual political spectacle of himself by declaring that he doesn’t think
evolution is real. In American politics, they call that “Wednesday,” or any
other day of the week ending in Y.

(image via Shutterstock)

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Christianity

Je Suis Charlie. Et Vous?

Terry Firma

Jan

8

2015

Charlie Hebdo killings condemned by Arab states – but hailed online by
extremists | World news | The Guardian

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Islam

Poll: Most Non-Believers Decry CIA Torture, While the Religious Are O.K. With
It

Terry Firma

Dec

21

2014

Earlier this week, Rachel at Friendly Atheist posted about Bryan Fischer‘s
views on torture. Fischer says that when the CIA tortured terrorism suspects,
that was OK, because they did so righteously, just like the murderers in the
Bible did their work to please God.

For my money, Fischer is the Ann Coulter of the evangelical set: someone with
a big mouth, a tiny heart, and a propensity to spout outrageousness. I’ve
always considered his views to be on the outer edge of what most Christians
find acceptable. But it turns out that at least when it comes to torture,
Christians are, overall, broadly in agreement with the man.

Over at MSNBC, Steve Benen scrutinized the results of a recent Washington Post/
ABC poll, and concludes:

    While many might assume that the faithful would be morally repulsed by
    torture, the reality is the opposite. When poll respondents were asked, “Do
    you personally think the CIA treatment of suspected terrorists amounted to
    torture, or not?” most Americans said the abuses did not constitute
    torture. But it was non-religious Americans who were easily the most
    convinced that the “enhanced interrogation techniques” were, in fact,
    torture.

                                   [o38fMSv]

    The results in response to this question were even more striking: “All in
    all, do you think the CIA treatment of suspected terrorists was justified
    or unjustified?” For most Americans, the answer, even after recent
    revelations, was yes. For most Christians, it’s also yes. But for the
    non-religious, as the above chart makes clear, the torture was not
    justified.

Atheists and agnostics are much more likely to condemn the gross,
inhumane actions of the worst CIA interrogators.

    [N]on-religious Americans were one of the few subsets that opposed the
    torture techniques — and that includes breakdowns across racial, gender,
    age, economic, educational, and regional lines. The non-religious are
    effectively alone in their opposition to torture. …

    [The poll results are] a pretty interesting starting point for a discussion
    about faith, morality, the law, and the limits of human decency.

In 2009, there was a Pew poll about torture that revealed more or less the same
divide between religious people and non-believers.

(Image via Shutterstock)

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Catholicism
  • Christianity
  • Protestantism

Gay-Friendly Kansas Minister Hears How One Christian Opponent Wants To Cut Her
Head Off and Put It On a Stick

Terry Firma

Dec

16

2014

Could it be that some Christians are a greater threat to churches than the
staunchest anti-theists? For Jackie Carter of Wichita, Kansas, the answer may
well be yes.

    Rev. Jackie Carter, a Wichita minister at First Metropolitan Community
    Church, says she has received death threats because of the gay weddings she
    has performed. The calls have been escalating since the state’s ban on gay
    marriage was struck down by a federal judge last month.

What do the threats entail? Carter quotes one:

    “I’m going to chop your head off and put it on a stick and carry it around
    the town square.”

                                   [6oSFrm0]

    She says the threats have led to vandalism that has included broken
    windows. The church has even stepped up security. “I’ve asked folks who
    support the church to help with purchasing cameras that we can have outside
    the building for the protection. We have a security company now.”

    Carter says she wants to ignore the threats, but she is scared. “When
    you’re here and the phone rings, and there’s heavy breathing and two
    seconds later the doorbell rings and then somebody’s throwing rocks through
    the windows. All those things combined create fear.”

It hasn’t affected her resolve. Carter says that despite everything, she’s
going to continue to marry committed couples, straight and gay.

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Christianity
  • Protestantism

Taliban Kill At Least 132 Children in Pakistan School Siege, Burn Female
Teacher Alive

Terry Firma

Dec

16

2014

In an act of terror reminiscent of the 2004 Beslan massacre and the handiwork
of Nigeria’s Boko Haram, Taliban fighters attacked a school in Peshawar,
Pakistan today, killing at least 132 pupils and nine teachers, including a
female instructor who was alive when the attackers doused her in gasoline and
set her alight in front of her class.

    The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (Pakistani Taliban) has claimed
    responsibility for the attack and said it was in revenge for an
    anti-terrorist military offensive. Spokesman Muhammad Khorasani said it was
    “just the trailer” to further attacks.

                                   [jwHEjfP]

According to the New York Times,

    The militants’ assault started at about 10 a.m., when nine gunmen disguised
    as paramilitary soldiers climbed the rear wall of the Army Public School
    and Degree College, a school of about 2,500 pupils, including boys and
    girls, a senior security official said. …

    As Pakistani security forces responded, some of the attackers blew
    themselves up while others were killed by members of the army’s Special
    Service Group commando unit.

    Desperate parents, meanwhile, rushed to local hospitals or gathered outside
    the school gates seeking news of their children. One of them, Muhammad
    Arshad, described his relief after his son Ehsan was rescued army
    commandos. “I am thankful to God for giving him a second life,” he said.

    But at the Combined Military Hospital, the bodies of schoolchildren were
    lined up on the floor, most of them with single gunshot wounds to the head.

Also,

    “They burned a teacher in front of the students in a classroom,” [an]
     unnamed military source told the US TV network. “They literally set the
    teacher on fire with gasoline and made the kids watch.”

And:

    According to a tweet by Omar R. Quraishi, an editor at The Express Tribune
    who has over 154,000 Twitter followers, “Some of the bodies brought to
    hospital during the Peshawar school attack have been headless: source.”

One expert on Islamist terror, Ahmed Rashid, said that

    … the insurgents had various reasons to attack the school, one of which was
    to send a message to the supporters of Malala [Yousafzai], who advocates
    education for women and children. … Rashid also believes the Taliban
    targeted the school to demoralize the military.

The school, though founded to educate the children of army officers, has many
pupils who come from civilian backgrounds.

(Image via Shutterstock)

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Islam

The Problem of Evil and the Florida Lottery

Terry Firma

Dec

13

2014

In your literary wanderings, you may have come across this quote, attributed
(perhaps wrongly) to the Greek philosopher Epicurus:

Is God willing to prevent evil, but not able?
Then he is not omnipotent.
Is he able, but not willing?
Then he is malevolent.
Is he both able and willing?
Then whence cometh evil?
Is he neither able nor willing?
Then why call him God?

                                   [dIInoOo]

The Epicurean paradox is an early version of the problem of evil. For thousands
of years, people have been asking why an all-powerful deity does nothing to
prevent disease, cruelty, and horrible deaths.

Pondering the problem of evil is challenging enough when good people suffer.
It’s worse when good people suffer and the perpetrators barely do (or not at
all).

And it becomes an exercise in pure frustration when this happens:

    Timothy Dale Poole, a convicted sex offender, has won $3 million in the
    Florida lottery. The 43-year-old was arrested in 1999 and accused of sexual
    battery on a 9-year-old. He eventually pled guilty to attempted sexual
    battery in a plea bargain and is currently listed as a sex predator in
    state records. …

    Poole was sentenced to 13 months in jail and 10 years of probation, but was
    sent to prison for 3 years when he missed his mandatory sex offender
    counseling sessions.

And now, in a big cosmic joke, he’s receiving a million dollars for each year
behind bars. A celestial reward for raping a kid, and other criminality:

    The Sentinel said he’s been arrested 12 times on charges that include grand
    theft and forging a check.

Commented a friend of Poole’s:

    “He was flabbergasted. He couldn’t believe it.” … “He’s a very positive
    person. Very kind. Giving. I think that’s why he won,” Snyder said. “It’s
    Christmastime, and the dude deserves a break.”

Yes, for Jesus’s birthday, child rapists should get a break. And millions of
dollars. It’s only fair.

Meanwhile, the victim is entitled to bupkis.

And while the morbidly obese Poole, who clocks in at 450 pounds, will be able
to order any food he pleases for as long as he lives, and as much of it as he
likes, this is what the Creator has in store for millions of His other
children:

                                   [5gK0Q8z]

God is a standup guy, isn’t he?

(Bottom image via topnaz)

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Atheism
  • Christianity
  • Islam
  • Judaism

Wisconsin Priest Who Accused Atheists of Shunning Beauty, Fun, and
Civic-Mindedness Is Cited For Indecent Proposal

Terry Firma

Dec

13

2014

Two years ago, Monsignor Bernard McGarty was driving by a festive display of
holiday lights in his hometown of La Crosse, Wisconsin, enjoying Christmas
carols on the radio, when a thought struck him: How dismal and cheerless La
Crosse would be if the town had embraced atheism rather than Christianity!

So, oblivious to the fact that winter solstice celebrations — with lights! —
predate Christmas by probably millennia, Father McGarty soon penned an amazing
editorial for the local newspaper that chiefly revealed how unlikely it is that
he personally knows any atheists. Consider: If La Crosse had been founded and
populated by atheists, McGarty claimed,

    The symphony would not have a theater with perfect acoustics, such as the
    house provided by the Franciscan Sisters. If the symphony were to play in a
    less august space, any of the religious music of Mendelssohn, Mozart,
    Beethoven, Brahms, Bach, Bizet and Verdi would be offensive to atheist ears
    . … At Passover, Holy Week and then Easter, no hearing Handel’s “Messiah,”
    celebrating resurrection. The “Messiah” lifts me off my feet. I soar as I
    hear it. Does atheism produce any comparable composition celebrating
    nothingness? By their fruits you shall know them.

    There would be no YWCA, no YMCA providing a swimming pool, gymnasium,
    weight room and other programs. Are atheists getting a free ride on we
    believers?

                                   [E4oUZPK]

    Do atheists send or receive valentines? Do they sing songs, tell a joke or
    buy a drink on Paddy’s Day? At Mardi Gras, do they dance? Are atheist
    children allowed to trick-or-treat or dress in funny costumes? Do they
    believe in fun?

Right. I guess we are supposed to think that in atheist-majority countries like
China and Sweden, there are no pristine symphony halls, no state-of-the-art
sports facilities, no celebrations, no exuberance, no humor, no dancing, no
sharing and charity and bonhomie. Just millions of moping, indolent sourpusses
being miserable together.

I’m writing about Father McGarty today because he just made the newspaper again
 (the same one where he published his 2012 editorial — that the editors might
well have rejected as hate speech if it had been about any minority group but
atheists). But this time, McGarty isn’t in the op-ed pages. He’s in the news/
crime section, because of the special way that he decided to get an early start
on celebrating the Christmas season.

    A La Crosse priest was cited Thursday for disorderly conduct after asking a
    Wausau massage therapist to touch his genitals. Wausau television station
    WSAW reported that Monsignor Bernard McGarty, 89, was receiving a massage
    when he lifted the coverings off his groin and asked the masseuse to rub
    his genitals. The massage therapist refused and left the room, according to
    WSAW; she told police McGarty then called her a derogatory name.

Happy holidays to you too, Father.

    McGarty was not arrested but issued a $250 ticket.

    A retired priest, McGarty served in several leadership positions with the
    Diocese of La Crosse and is a visiting scholar of ecumenical studies at
    Viterbo University.

We ought to thank Father McGarty for leading by example. Without him, we might
never have known that one great way to spread holiday cheer is through sexual
misconduct and cursing.

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Catholicism
  • Christianity

DC Rabbi Accused of Spying on Naked Faithful via a Hidden Camera in Temple’s
Showers

Terry Firma

Oct

18

2014

You know what might tip a reasonable person off to something untoward going on
in the mikvah, the ritual bath that orthodox Jewish women (and men) take to
purify themselves? I dunno, maybe something like this:

    Emma Shulevitz remembers seeing a clock radio in the mikvah. The rabbi told
    her not to put clothes in front of it.

For some reason, Shulevitz thought nothing of it at the time. But the rabbi,
Barry Freundel of Washington D.C., was arrested this week when it was finally
discovered that the clock radio — reported to be, appropriately, a Sony “Dream
Machine” — contains a small camera. The pervy cleric had been digitally ogling
unsuspecting women for years.

    A rabbi at a prominent Washington, D.C., synagogue faces voyeurism charges
    following accusations he secretly recorded women in the changing and shower
    area there.

                                   [iB7FLIv]

    Dr. Barry Freundel was released on his own recognizance Wednesday under the
    conditions he stay away from the victims, the temple and the mikvah where,
    according to the police report, at least six women were photographed. …

    Detectives [said] there could be more than 200 victims, some as far away as
    Israel.

Freundel’s lawyer, Jeffrey Harris, offered this statement:

    “As you might expect, he’s in a lot of pain.”

So the rabbi is feeling deep shame and overwhelming remorse?

It’s not that, Harris clarified:

    “He has a back ailment, and I really don’t have much more to say than
    that.”

Watch this report from NBC’s News Channel 4:

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Judaism

ISIS Beheadings Are Repugnant — As Are Those Carried Out By Our Pious Saudi
“Friends”

Terry Firma

Oct

16

2014

Newsweek asks a good question: Why, if Americans are so horrified by the ISIS
beheadings, do we collectively shrug about the beheadings carried out by Saudi
Arabia, our so-called ally?

Since the beginning of the year, 59 people have had their heads chopped off in
the Islamic paradise, in cases that wouldn’t pass judicial muster in a halfway
enlightened nation.

    The Saudi legal system is based on Islam’s Sharia law. Some countries that
    use Sharia possess a penal code, but Saudi Arabia does not.

This is what awaits the condemned.

    If you are a prisoner in Riyadh, the capital, you might be taken to the
    ocher-colored Deera Square, which has acquired a macabre sobriquet: Chop
    Chop Square. Before you arrive, police and security forces will have
    prepared the area. It may have been cordoned off to keep curious spectators
    at a distance, but they will congregate nonetheless.

    You will be led to the center of the square, on the bare earth. According
    to one of Saudi Arabia’s state executioners, Mohammed Saad al-Beshi, who
    was interviewed in the Saudi newspaper Arab News in June 2003, your energy
    is likely to fade at this point, from sheer exhaustion and fear. You will
    not fight for your life, nor protest against your restraints.

Also because usually there’s Valium or another sedative coursing through your
system — a pill that the regime touts as a kind offering to calm the convict’s
nerves, but which is also to the executioner’s benefit: less chance of
fear, panic, and writhing.

 

[jR9RvWb]

The Saudi flag and the national Saudi coat of arms. Note that they both feature
swords. Rest assured, however, that that iconography is entirely incidental to
the Saudis’ peaceful faith.

 

    The executioner — always a man — is not allowed to talk to his victim. He
    reads your charge and some verses from the Quran. You are blindfolded,
    which is extremely important, and not for humanitarian reasons. If, when
    the sword is coming down, you turn in fearful anticipation, things could
    get messy. The blade might not sever with a single chop, or the executioner
    could miss his mark. The blood won’t be neatly caught by the plastic bags,
    and the head might not be so easy to scoop up…

    Even in death, you are not liberated. Your murder is meant to be a sign to
    the people in the crowd that Saudi Arabia does not tolerate dissent. A
    loudspeaker announces your crime. Your body may be taken away to be buried
    immediately. But if you were accused of banditry or drug smuggling, like
    seven Yemenis who were beheaded last year, your corpse will also be
    crucified.

Mohammed Saad al-Beshi’s most productive day so far was when he beheaded seven
prisoners. He told Arab News, “It doesn’t matter to me: Two, four, 10 — as long
as I’m doing God’s will, it doesn’t matter how many people I execute.”

    Al-Beshi started his trade in Jeddah in 1988, but many of the beheaders
    [there is currently a shortage of them] come from a long line of
    executioners, an occupation passed from generation to generation, like a
    cherished heirloom.

They’re nothing if not versatile.

    In Saudi Arabia, at least, the executioner isn’t limited to separating
    bodies from heads. He also cuts off other body parts — hands, legs —
    depending on the crime.

Newsweek notes that the most recent beheading victim was convicted of — no joke
— sorcery. Some Saudi prisoners are put to death for political dissent.

Also, last year a Saudi defendant who’d caused another man to become paralyzed
was ordered to undergo the same fate, reportedly by having the executioner
sever his spinal cord.

Through it all, the silence from the West is deafening.

George W. Bush, for one, made it clear that he would rather hold hands with the
Saudi King — and repeatedly kiss him, see the video below — than ask the
despot to stop the head-chopping barbarity. That attitude continues: Last
month, Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to Saudi Arabia to strategize
about ways to stop the human-rights violations perpetrated by ISIS. As
expected, Kerry gave the Saudi executions a free pass, never raising the
subject.

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Islam

In New York, Man From Ivory Coast Allegedly Sodomized His Wife, Then Cut Her
Genitals

Terry Firma

Oct

13

2014

A bizarre and disturbing story, via Opposing Views:

    Moussa Diarra, 48, an African native, wanted to have anal intercourse with
    his 24-year-old wife. When she refused, he forcibly sodomized her before
    attempting to circumcise the woman around 9 p.m. Sept. 14 at his Manhattan
    apartment, the New York Post reports.

    The victim called police about a week after the assault. Diarra, who is a
    native of the Ivory Coast, where male and female circumcision is
    widespread, was arrested on Sept. 23, according to court records.

                                   [DQbXN0n]

There are African countries, such as Nigeria, whose Christian populations
engage in female genital mutilation (FGM) on a scale equal to or greater than
Muslims perform FGM in their families and communities. That’s not the case in
Ivory Coast, where, a U.S. State Department report says,

    The practice is prevalent among Muslim women, and is also deeply rooted in
    traditional Animist initiation rites in western, central and northern Cote
    d’Ivoire.

    The practice on village women is strongly linked to the survival of local
    secret societies and mask-cults at the heart of village spiritual life. The
    clitoris is thought to possess power and its removal during initiation
    gives that power to the village spirits and traditional spiritual leaders
    or masks, without which the spirits/masks and the entire village would die.

    Attempts to eradicate the practice, or even to transform it from a physical
    to a symbolic act, are perceived as threatening to “assassinate the people”
    of the village.

More about what exactly took place in the Diarra household, and why, should
come out at trial. The suspect is scheduled to appear in court on October 27.
He faces charges of forcible sex act, aggravated sexual assault by compulsion,
attempted assault with intent to disfigure or dismember, and assault with
intent to cause physical injury with a weapon.

He maintains that the allegations are false, and says he doesn’t know who cut
his wife.

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Christianity
  • Islam
  • Other cults / tribes

Egged On By Ex-Pastor Husband, Mom Attempts To Murder Daughters … to Bring Them
To Jesus

Terry Firma

Oct

12

2014

Jesus is a great pal, now and forever. Wouldn’t you like to meet him?

Police say that was the basic motivation behind the crime committed the other
day by Pamela Christensen, an Illinois mother with end-times delusions who
confessed that she had attempted to murder her three daughters.

After 911 dispatchers received two hang-up calls from the Christensens’
Montgomery home, officers went there and found the girls upstairs. Two of them
had been stabbed in the chest by their God-besotted mom.

                                   [kcidaif]

    [P]olice said Christensen told officers that she was sending the girls home
    to “meet Jesus Christ.” The three girls, ages 12, 16 and 19, told police
    that their mother held a knife to them and asked them if they accepted
    Jesus Christ as their savior. Two of the girls were stabbed. Police
    recovered a poisonous liquid in the home’s kitchen, which Christensen said
    she had concocted out of dishwashing detergent in an attempt to subdue her
    children. She told police she had hoped they would fall asleep so she could
    stab them. Police said the children refused to ingest the poison…

    The woman told officers that her husband, Vaughn Christensen, had left
    messages on the phone telling his wife that the world was ending, and that
    she needed to prepare the family to meet Jesus. Vaughn Christensen is a
    former pastor at a Sugar Grove church.

The three girls, who have non-life-threatening injuries, were released from a
local hospital and are now reportedly staying with a grandparent.

Their parents had been going through a contentious divorce, during which Pamela
Christensen accused her husband of having become increasingly “violent” and
“erratic” toward her and their daughters.

Sounds like she wasn’t entirely free of violent and erratic behavior herself.

Ms. Christensen, who is being held on bail of one million dollars, is due in
court on Friday.

(Image via Montgomery Police Department)

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Christianity
  • Protestantism

The 9 Commandments? Priests at Two Churches Are Accused of Theft…and They’re
Brothers!

Terry Firma

Oct

11

2014

What do you call your brother if he’s a priest? Father?

I suppose that mystery was amplified in the Belczak family. Many years ago,
Michigan brothers Edward Belczak (below, left) and Thomas Belczak decided that
they loved the Catholic Church so much, they wanted to become its professional
holy message-spreaders. After a while, they figured that they were entitled to
quite a bit more than what the Lord, in His wisdom, had been giving them — and
they took it.

                                   [FqG0xXT]

    Father Thomas Belczak has been required to step aside as pastor of St.
    Kenneth Parish, Plymouth, pending further steps by Church officials. Law
    enforcement officials are investigating allegations that he has misused
    parish funds. During this time, Belczak will not be permitted to be present
    at St. Kenneth; he will not be working or serving there in any capacity. …

    These charges come just months after Belczak’s brother, Father Edward
    Belczak and his church administrator were indicted for stealing about
    $700,000 from St. Thomas More Church in Troy over eight years.

    It’s unclear to law enforcement officials if the investigation of Thomas
    Belczak is connected to the investigations of his brother in Troy.

           video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player

The money pilfered by Father Edward

    … allegedly included most of a $350,000 gift to the church from the family
    of a dead parishioner and cash donated by churchgoers during special
    Mother’s Day and Father’s Day collections, prosecutors said. The priest
    spent some of the money on a condominium in Palm Beach, Fla., according to
    the indictment.

I’m sure it’s all a giant misunderstanding… or perhaps the godly brothers have
a version of the Ten Commandments that somehow excludes the one about stealing.

Share this:

  • Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
  • More
  • 

  • Click to print (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
  • Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
  • 
  • 

  • Catholicism
  • Christianity

1 2 3 4 5 6 … 46 Next >>

About Moral Compass

  • About Copyright
  • Contact Us
  • Frequently Asked Questions
  • House Rules / Comment Policy

Search the site

[                    ] []
Recent Posts

  • Canadian Lawmaker Draws Derision By Denying Evolution, Even From His Own
    Party
  • Je Suis Charlie. Et Vous?
  • Poll: Most Non-Believers Decry CIA Torture, While the Religious Are O.K.
    With It
  • Gay-Friendly Kansas Minister Hears How One Christian Opponent Wants To Cut
    Her Head Off and Put It On a Stick
  • Taliban Kill At Least 132 Children in Pakistan School Siege, Burn Female
    Teacher Alive

Help keep us going!

Please consider donating to help offset our costs. No amount too large!

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *

Most Popular Posts

You must first login to Google Analytics in the "Google Analytics by Yoast"
settings for this widget to work.

Go to plugin settings.

Recent Comments

  • Reginald Wayne Miller on House Rules / Comment Policy
  • Laurance on House Rules / Comment Policy
  • Toby on Contact Us
  • michael joseph on House Rules / Comment Policy
  • Dinkar times : News update|Breaking news|Sports news|Business news|
    Bollywood| on Taliban Kill At Least 132 Children in Pakistan School Siege,
    Burn Female Teacher Alive

Moral Compass by email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog. We'll notify you of new
posts. We won't sell your data. Ever.

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Like us on Facebook

    Like us on Facebook

Categories

  • Amish
  • Atheism
  • Blog operations
  • Buddhism
  • Catholicism
  • Christianity
  • Hinduism
  • Islam
  • Judaism
  • Mormonism
  • Other cults / tribes
  • Protestantism
  • Scientology
  • Sikhism
  • Uncategorized

Archives

  • February 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • October 2014
  • September 2014
  • June 2014
  • May 2014
  • February 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • September 2013
  • August 2013
  • July 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • March 2013
  • February 2013

NOTE: Moral Compass is a compendium of religious wickedness. All alleged
violators mentioned in our posts are innocent until proven guilty in court.

Our Patron Saint

[HaggardSaint3]

Doubting Thomases

PAINE AND JEFFERSON ON RELIGION:

"It is impossible to calculate the moral mischief that mental lying has
produced in society. When man has so far corrupted and prostituted the chastity
of his mind, as to subscribe his professional belief to things he does not
believe, he has prepared himself for the commission of every other crime." —
Thomas Paine


"It does me no injury for my neighbor to say there are 20 gods or no god. It
neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg." — Thomas Jefferson

Non-Doubting Thomas

THOMAS THE TANK ENGINE MEETS TERENCE THE ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE:

Thomas: "What ugly wheels you've got!"
Terence: "They're not ugly, they're caterpillars. I can go anywhere. I don't
need rails."
Thomas: "I don't want to go anywhere. I like my rails, thank you."
[Thomas-and-terence1]

(C) 2016 Moral Compass — All Rights Reserved.

Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
[                         ] loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
