Dwindling In Unbelief

14 December 2015

Which is more violent, the Bible or the Quran?

(Repost with updated numbers 14 December 2015.)

    The LORD is a man of war. Exodus 15:3

    Fight in the way of Allah. Quran 2:244

Which is more violent, the Bible or the Quran? Is there a way to objectively
answer such a question?

Well, it wouldn't be easy. But it is possible to compare the amount of cruelty
and violence in the two books.

Here is a summary of the highlighted verses in the SAB and SAQ.

       Number of Cruel or Violent Passages

Bible                 1321

Quran                  532

So the Bible has more than twice as many cruel or violent passages as does the
Quran. But the Bible is a much bigger book. How do they compare when size is
taken into account?

       Violence and Cruelty  Total verses  Percent

Bible          1321             31102       4.25

Quran          532               6236       8.53

When expressed as a percentage of cruel or violent verses (at least as marked
in the SAB/Q), the Quran has twice that of the Bible. (8.53 vs. 4.25%)

Of course this analysis does not consider the extent of the cruelty in the
marked passages. And that is an important consideration. Is Numbers 31:14-18,
for example, more cruel than Quran 5:34? That is something that each person
must decide.

A good argument could be made that either book is the most violent and cruel
book ever written. The award would go to one or the other, for neither has any
close competitors.

It is frightening to think that more than half of the world's population
believes in one or the other.

[religion_peaceful]
Posted by Steve Wells 293 comments ● ●

12 December 2015

The Misuse of 1 Corinthians 7 by Anti-Gay Christian Apologists

1ColoClerkIn an obvious attempt to discourage same-sex couples from applying
for marriage licenses, Dallas Shroeder, a county clerk in Colorado, prominently
displayed a poster quoting 1 Corinthians 7:2b: "... each man should have his
own wife and each woman should have her own husband."

At least he did until the Freedom From Religion Foundation complained and
forced him to stop.

Although the poster has been taken down, Christian apologists often to use 1
Corinthians 7 to oppose same-sex marriage. And yet this chapter is not against
same-sex marriage; it is against marriage itself.

Paul begins the chapter by saying in verse 1 that "it is good for man not to
touch a woman." Marriage, in Paul's view, is only for weaklings, those who
cannot resist the temptation to fornicate. This is evident in the next verse,
which says:

    Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and
    let every woman have her own husband. (v.2)

By quoting only the second half of verse 2, Christian apologists make it appear
that Paul approved of "traditional marriage," when, in fact, he considered it
to be, at best, a necessary evil.

Later in the same chapter, Paul repeatedly discouraged Christians from
marrying, saying:

    I would that all men were even as I myself. ... I say therefore to the
    unmarried and widows, It is good for them if they abide even as I. But if
    they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to
    burn. (vv. 7-9)

Only those who "cannot contain" should marry. Because it's "better to marry
than to burn."

Paul summarized his view on marriage this way: If you're not married, don't get
married. If you are married, don't have sex. (There's no time for it since "the
time is short," i.e., Jesus is coming.)

    Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife. ... the time is short: it
    remaineth, that both they that have wives be as though they had none (vv.
    27-29)

Thanks to the Freedom From Religion Foundation, Mr. Shroeder is no longer
trying to influence couples seeking marriage licenses. But if he were to do so
based on 1 Corinthians 7, his sign should say: "Don't marry unless you can't
control yourself; if you do marry, don't have sex."

Or something like that.
Posted by Steve Wells 1 comments ● ●

09 December 2015

Is that from the Bible or the Quran?

Recently a couple of Dutch comedians covered a Bible with a paper jacket
labelled "The Holy Quran" and read passages from it to people on the street.
Here's what happened.

And it's not really all that surprising. The Bible and Quran sound a lot alike.

Here are twenty verses from these two holy books. Which are from the Quran and
which are from the Bible? (Bible quotations are taken from the King James
Version. Quran verses are from The Study Quran.)

 1. He that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death,
    and all the congregation shall certainly stone him.

 2. As for the male and female thief, cut off their hands as a recompense for
    what they have earned, as an exemplary punishment from God.

 3. A life for a life, an eye for an eye, a nose for a nose, an ear for an ear,
    a tooth for a tooth, and for wounds, retribution.

 4. Cursed by he that keepeth back his sword from blood.

 5. Whosoever slays a soul ... it is as though he slew mankind altogether, and
    whosoever saves the life of one, it is as though he saved the life of
    mankind altogether.

 6. If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have
    committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood
    shall be upon them.

 7. And I will set my jealousy against thee, and they shall deal furiously with
    thee: they shall take away thy nose and thine ears. ... Thou shalt even
    drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt ... pluck off thine own breasts:
    for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

 8. As for the adulterer and the adulteress, flog them each one hundred lashes,
    and let not pity for them overcome you concerning God's judgment.

 9. Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts is the land darkened, and the people
    shall be as the fuel of the fire: no man shall spare his brother. And he
    shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and he shall eat on the left
    hand, and they shall not be satisfied: they shall eat every man the flesh
    of his own arm.

10. Those who disbelieve ... We shall surely cause them to burn in a Fire. As
    often as their skins are consumed, We shall replace them with other skins
    that they may taste the punishment.

11. God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: That
    they all might be damned.

12. And Lot, when he said to his people, "What! Do you commit an indecency such
    as none in the world committed before you? Verily you come with desire unto
    men instead of women. Indeed, you a a prodigal people."

13. If a man have two wives, one beloved, and another hated, and they have born
    him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if the firstborn son be
    hers that was hated: Then it shall be, when he maketh his sons to inherit
    that which he hath, that he may not make the son of the beloved firstborn
    before the son of the hated...

14. When Jesus brought clear proofs, he said, "If have come unto you with
    wisdom and to make clear to you some of that wherein you differ. So
    reverence God and obey me."

15. Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, In flaming fire
    taking vengeance on them that know not God ... who shall be punished with
    everlasting destruction.

16. And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their
    daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh of his friend.

17. Let neither your property nor your children divert you from the remembrance
    of God.

18. Among your spouses and your children there is indeed an enemy unto you; so
    be wary of them.

19. If a thief ... have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.

20. On the day you see it, every nursing woman will forget what she nurses, and
    every pregnant woman will deliver her burden, and you will see mankind
    drunk, thou drunk they will not be. Rather, the Punishment of God is
    severe.

See here for the answers.
Posted by Steve Wells 6 comments ● ●

That's what Hanukkah is all about, Charlie Brown

This year, Hanukkah began Sunday evening and will end Monday, December 14th.

Everyone knows what Christmas is all about (ever since Linus explained it to
Charlie Brown), but how many can say the same for Hanukkah?

[hanukkah]

Well, it's all about the Hanukkah killings in the first book of Maccabees (
Killing 145 in Drunk With Blood: God's killings in the Bible).

Here's the story.

A year after God's slaughter of Georga's army, Lysias attacked Judas with army
of 60,000.

    The year following Lysias gathered together threescore thousand chosen men,
    and five thousand horsemen. 1 Machabees 4:28

Judas asked God to deliver the Syrians like he did the mighty and the strangers
to David and Jonathan.

    Judas met them with ten thousand men ... and he prayed, and said: Blessed
    art thou, O Saviour of Israel, who didst break the violence of the mighty
    by the hand of thy servant David, and didst deliver up the camp of the
    strangers into the hands of Jonathan the son of Saul and of his
    armourbearer. 4:29-30

He asked God to scare the hell out of them.

    Strike them with fear ... and let them quake at their own destruction. 4:32

And kill them with the sword of those that love him.

    Cast them down with the sword of them that love thee: and let all that know
    thy name, praise thee with hymns. 4:33

And it worked. God helped Judas kill 5000.

    And there fell of the army of Lysias five thousand men. 4:34

After God "discomfited" the Gentiles, Judas and his brethren went to clean up
the Temple.

    Then Judas, and his brethren said: Behold our enemies are discomfited: let
    us go up now to cleanse the holy places and to repair them. 4:36

They found the Temple to be a bit of a mess.

    And they saw the sanctuary desolate, and the altar profaned, and the gates
    burnt, and shrubs growing up in the courts as in a forest, or on the
    mountains, and the chambers joining to the temple thrown down. 4:38

So they did the usual things that Jews do when they get upset: they rent their
garments, put ashes on their heads, and fell on their faces.

    They rent their garments ... and put ashes on their heads ...And they fell
    ... on their faces. 4:39-40

Then they cleaned things up at the Temple and killed some animals for God.

    They made new holy vessels, and brought in the candlestick, and the altar
    of incense, and the table into the temple. And they put incense upon the
    altar, and lighted up the lamps ... And they offered sacrifice. 4:49-53

And everyone fell on their faces once again. (You just can't do that too many
times.)

    And all the people fell upon their faces . 4:55

When the Gentiles found out that the Jews had cleaned up the temple, they were
exceedingly angry.

    Now it came to pass, when the nations round about heard that the altar and
    the sanctuary were built up as before, that they were exceeding angry. 1
    Machabees 5:1

So they began to persecute and kill the Jews.

    And they thought to destroy the generation of Jacob that were among them,
    and they began to kill some of the people, and to persecute them. 5:2

Which got Judas (and God) in a killing mood once again. He slaughtered the
children of Esau.

    Judas fought against the children of Esau in Idumea, and them that were in
    Acrabathane ... and he made a great slaughter of them. 5:3

Burned to death the children of Bean.

    He remembered the malice of the children of Bean ... And they were shut up
    by him in towers, and he ... burnt their towers with fire, and all that
    were in them. 5:4-5

And smote the children of Ammon.

    Then he passed over to the children of Ammon ... and they were discomfited
    in their sight, and he smote them. 5:6-7

God helped Judas kill the Gentiles because God likes the Jewish people more
than other people, likes the Jewish religion more than other religions, and
likes Jews to kill and sacrifice animals to him in the Temple. After the
slaughter of the Gentiles and the re-dedication of the Temple, the Jews
established the annual eight-day festival, which we know today as Hanukkah.

    Judas, and his brethren, and all the church of Israel decreed, that the day
    of the dedication of the altar should be kept in its season from year to
    year for eight days, from the five and twentieth day of the month of Casleu
    . 1 Machabees 4:59

And that's what Hanukkah is all about, Charlie Brown.
Posted by Steve Wells 1 comments ● ●

26 November 2015

Alma 51: Freemen and Kingmen

We left last chapter with a young Pahoran in the judgement-seat, and peace in
the kingdom. The time of peace was fairly short-lived, because there was a
group of people who wanted to establish kings in the land, rather than judges.
The people who wanted kings were called "Kingmen", and the people who wanted to
keep the system the way it was and stick to judges called themselves "Freemen".
"Freemen" has a better ring to it, so they were clearly in the catbird seat in
terms of spin, much like "Pro-Choice" is in the abortion debate. We'll see how
this plays out.


    And now it came to pass in the commencement of the twenty and fifth year of
    the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, they having established
    peace between the people of Lehi and the people of Morianton concerning
    their lands, and having commenced the twenty and fifth year in peace 51:1

    Nevertheless, they did not long maintain an entire peace in the land, for
    there began to be a contention among the people concerning the chief judge
    Pahoran; for behold, there were a part of the people who desired that a few
    particular points of the law should be altered. 51:2

    But behold, Pahoran would not alter nor suffer the law to be altered;
    therefore, he did not hearken to those who had sent in their voices with
    their petitions concerning the altering of the law. 51:3 

   
    Therefore, those who were desirous that the law should be altered were
    angry with him, and desired that he should no longer be chief judge over
    the land; therefore there arose a warm dispute concerning the matter, but
    not unto bloodshed. 51:4

    And it came to pass that those who were desirous that Pahoran should be
    dethroned from the judgment-seat were called king-men, for they were
    desirous that the law should be altered in a manner to overthrow the free
    government and to establish a king over the land. 51:5 

    And those who were desirous that Pahoran should remain chief judge over the
    land took upon them the name of freemen; and thus was the division among
    them, for the freemen had sworn or covenanted to maintain their rights and
    the privileges of their religion by a free government. 51:6

The Kingmen's referendum failed, and the people sided with the Freemen, and
they stuck with the judge system. Pahoran kept the judgement-seat, and all was
well.


    And it came to pass that this matter of their contention was settled by the
    voice of the people. And it came to pass that the voice of the people came
    in favor of the freemen, and Pahoran retained the judgment-seat, which
    caused much rejoicing among the brethren of Pahoran and also many of the
    people of liberty, who also put the king-men to silence, that they durst
    not oppose but were obliged to maintain the cause of freedom. 51:7

But they still had that pesky Amalickiah to deal with. He had sworn to drink
the blood of Moroni, and his recent failed campaigns hadn't made him want to
give up. He went around raising an army of Lamanites and people from all over
the land. He didn't have quite as strong of an army as before, but he put
together a "wonderfully great army" that he brought to Zarahemla in the 25th
year of the Judges.

    But behold, this was a critical time for such contentions to be among the
    people of Nephi; for behold, Amalickiah had again stirred up the hearts of
    the people of the Lamanites against the people of the Nephites, and he was
    gathering together soldiers from all parts of his land, and arming them,
    and preparing for war with all diligence; for he had sworn to drink the
    blood of Moroni. 51:9

    Now his armies were not so great as they had hitherto been, because of the
    many thousands who had been slain by the hand of the Nephites; but
    notwithstanding their great loss, Amalickiah had gathered together a
    wonderfully great army, insomuch that he feared not to come down to the
    land of Zarahemla. 51:11 

    Yea, even Amalickiah did himself come down, at the head of the Lamanites.
    And it was in the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges; and it
    was at the same time that they had begun to settle the affairs of their
    contentions concerning the chief judge, Pahoran. 51:12

When the former "Kingmen" heard that Amalickiah was coming with an army against
Pahoran, they refused to defend their country. When Moroni heard this, he
issued a petition to give him the right to draft the Kingmen into the army
against their will (or to kill them).


    And it came to pass that when the men who were called king-men had heard
    that the Lamanites were coming down to battle against them, they were glad
    in their hearts; and they refused to take up arms, for they were so wroth
    with the chief judge, and also with the people of liberty, that they would
    not take up arms to defend their country. 51:13 

    And it came to pass that when Moroni saw this, and also saw that the
    Lamanites were coming into the borders of the land, he was exceedingly
    wroth because of the stubbornness of those people whom he had labored with
    so much diligence to preserve; yea, he was exceedingly wroth; his soul was
    filled with anger against them. 51:14 

    And it came to pass that he sent a petition, with the voice of the people,
    unto the governor of the land, desiring that he should read it, and give
    him (Moroni) power to compel those dissenters to defend their country or to
    put them to death. 51:15

Moroni got his order granted, and he went to town against the king-men. They
resisted, and fought the conscription. Moroni's army killed 4,000 of the
kingmen, and threw the rest of the survivors in prison. There wasn't time for a
trial right then...this was war!


    For it was his first care to put an end to such contentions and dissensions
    among the people; for behold, this had been hitherto a cause of all their
    destruction. And it came to pass that it was granted according to the voice
    of the people. 51:16 

    And it came to pass that Moroni commanded that his army should go against
    those king-men, to pull down their pride and their nobility and level them
    with the earth, or they should take up arms and support the cause of
    liberty. 51:17 

    And it came to pass that the armies did march forth against them; and they
    did pull down their pride and their nobility, insomuch that as they did
    lift their weapons of war to fight against the men of Moroni they were hewn
    down and leveled to the earth. 51:18 

    And it came to pass that there were four thousand of those dissenters who
    were hewn down by the sword; and those of their leaders who were not slain
    in battle were taken and cast into prison, for there was no time for their
    trials at this period. 51:19

So Moroni put an end to this little rebellion. And just in time, too, because
the Lamanite army was coming up on their land, and they were spoiling for a
fight.


    And the remainder of those dissenters, rather than be smitten down to the
    earth by the sword, yielded to the standard of liberty, and were compelled
    to hoist the title of liberty upon their towers, and in their cities, and
    to take up arms in defence of their country. 51.20 

    And thus Moroni put an end to those king-men, that there were not any known
    by the appellation of king-men; and thus he put an end to the stubbornness
    and the pride of those people who professed the blood of nobility; but they
    were brought down to humble themselves like unto their brethren, and to
    fight valiantly for their freedom from bondage. 51.21

    Behold, it came to pass that while Moroni was thus breaking down the wars
    and contentions among his own people, and subjecting them to peace and
    civilization, and making regulations to prepare for war against the
    Lamanites, behold, the Lamanites had come into the land of Moroni, which
    was in the borders by the seashore. 51.22

But even with the new conscripted soldiers, the Nephites were not strong enough
to resist Amlickiah's forces. They attacked the city of Moroni, and took it,
and all of it's fortifications. The Nephites fled to the city of Nephihah, and
prepared for battle with the people of the city of Lehi. Meanwhile Amlickiah
didn't want to risk open battle, so he kept his men in the cities that he had
conquered to defend them.

    And it came to pass that the Nephites were not sufficiently strong in the
    city of Moroni; therefore Amalickiah did drive them, slaying many. And it
    came to pass that Amalickiah took possession of the city, yea, possession
    of all their fortifications. 51.23 

    And those who fled out of the city of Moroni came to the city of Nephihah;
    and also the people of the city of Lehi gathered themselves together, and
    made preparations and were ready to receive the Lamanites to battle. 51.24 

    But it came to pass that Amalickiah would not suffer the Lamanites to go
    against the city of Nephihah to battle, but kept them down by the seashore,
    leaving men in every city to maintain and defend it. 51.25


Until the next verse, when he's conquering city after city (first on the list
was Moroni, which the book said that he was avoiding...)


    And thus he went on, taking possession of many cities, the city of
    Nephihah, and the city of Lehi, and the city of Morianton, and the city of
    Omner, and the city of Gid, and the city of Mulek, all of which were on the
    east borders by the seashore. 51:26 

    And thus had the Lamanites obtained, by the cunning of Amalickiah, so many
    cities, by their numberless hosts, all of which were strongly fortified
    after the manner of the fortifications of Moroni; all of which afforded
    strongholds for the Lamanites. 51:27

So things aren't looking very good for the Nephites. This Amalickiah guy is
really causing trouble. Luckily, his killing spree was about to end. Amalickiah
and his men were about to have an unlucky run-in with Teancum.

    And it came to pass that they marched to the borders of the land Bountiful,
    driving the Nephites before them and slaying many. 51:28 But it came to
    pass that they were met by Teancum, who had slain Morianton and had headed
    his people in his flight. 51:29

Amalickiah was trying to head to the land Bountiful to attack the people there,
but Teancum wouldn't let him. Teancum and his men met up with Amalickiah, and
killed them until the sun went down. His men were much stronger than the
Lamanite men, and they were also more skilled warriors, so they completely
dominated them. Once night fell, both sides stopped fighting and made camp.


    And it came to pass that he headed Amalickiah also, as he was marching
    forth with his numerous army that he might take possession of the land
    Bountiful, and also the land northward. 51:30 

    But behold he met with a disappointment by being repulsed by Teancum and
    his men, for they were great warriors; for every man of Teancum did exceed
    the Lamanites in their strength and in their skill of war, insomuch that
    they did gain advantage over the Lamanites. 51:31  

    And it came to pass that they did harass them, insomuch that they did slay
    them even until it was dark. And it came to pass that Teancum and his men
    did pitch their tents in the borders of the land Bountiful; and Amalickiah
    did pitch his tents in the borders on the beach by the seashore, and after
    this manner were they driven. 51:32

And then things get interesting. Teancum brings his servant on a secret
mission: to run over to the enemy camp and to kill Amalickiah. He does this so
quickly and quietly that Amalickiah's servants don't even wake up. Teancum
thrusts a javelin straight into his heart, and instantly kills Amalickiah.


    And it came to pass that when the night had come, Teancum and his servant
    stole forth and went out by night, and went into the camp of Amalickiah;
    and behold, sleep had overpowered them because of their much fatigue, which
    was caused by the labors and heat of the day. 51:33 


    And it came to pass that Teancum stole privily into the tent of the king,
    and put a javelin to his heart; and he did cause the death of the king
    immediately that he did not awake his servants. Teancum snuck into the
    king's tent and stuck a javelin into his heart. 51:34


Then Teancum and his servant return to their own camp and tell eveyone what
happened. He also prepares them for battle -- who knows how the Lamanites might
recact?


    And he returned again privily to his own camp, and behold, his men were
    asleep, and he awoke them and told them all the things that he had done. 
    51:35 

    And he caused that his armies should stand in readiness, lest the Lamanites
    had awakened and should come upon them. 51:36

And that was the end of the 25th year of the Judges. And it was also the end of
Amalickiah.

    And thus endeth the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the judges over
    the people of Nephi; and thus endeth the days of Amalickiah. 51:37

Posted by Philip Wells 1 comments ● ●
Older Posts Home
Subscribe to: Posts (Atom)
●

Check out my books:

[sabcropped]
●

Strange Flesh

[SFCover]
●

Drunk With Blood

[2ndEd]

Drunk With Blood Audiobook:
Introduction

●
Subscribe to our mailing list
[Subscribe]
●

Audiobook

Audiobook
●

 

●
Follow @SteveWellsSAB
●
●
●

Subscribe To

[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] Posts
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
[subscribe-] [subscribe-] [icon_feed1] Atom
[arrow_drop] [icon_feed1] All Comments
●
RSS Feed
●

Search This Blog

Loading...
●

A biased sample

  • Every Jot and Tittle: A list of all the Bible's commandments
  • A Challenge to Christians
  • How many has God killed? (Complete list and estimated total)
  • Islam: It's mostly about going to the bathroom
  • Blogging the Book of Mormon
  • Who had the most powerful spit? Jesus or Muhammad?
  • What was Muhammad like? A detailed description from the Ash-Shifa
  • 50 reasons to be ashamed (and not a fan) of Jesus
  • Who has killed more, Satan or God?
  • God's Top 50 Killings in the Bible
  • Where do evil spirits come from?
  • The worth of a woman: The Bible vs. the Quran
  • 208 ways to get yourself saved
  • Real men pee standing up
  • Everybody must get stoned
  • Where do evil spirits come from?
  • What does Jesus have written on his testicles?
  • Why Christian "Marriage" is Wrong
  • Is it wrong to burn people to death?
  • The Top 50 Bible Stories for kids
  • Which bits of the Bible are we still to believe?

●

Blog Archive

  • ►  2006 (77)
      □ ►  Jun 2006 (16)
      □ ►  Jul 2006 (15)
      □ ►  Aug 2006 (12)
      □ ►  Sep 2006 (8)
      □ ►  Oct 2006 (9)
      □ ►  Nov 2006 (11)
      □ ►  Dec 2006 (6)

  • ►  2007 (33)
      □ ►  Jan 2007 (6)
      □ ►  Feb 2007 (4)
      □ ►  Mar 2007 (2)
      □ ►  Apr 2007 (2)
      □ ►  May 2007 (1)
      □ ►  Jun 2007 (2)
      □ ►  Jul 2007 (2)
      □ ►  Aug 2007 (1)
      □ ►  Sep 2007 (1)
      □ ►  Oct 2007 (5)
      □ ►  Nov 2007 (3)
      □ ►  Dec 2007 (4)

  • ►  2008 (69)
      □ ►  Jan 2008 (3)
      □ ►  Feb 2008 (3)
      □ ►  Mar 2008 (8)
      □ ►  Apr 2008 (11)
      □ ►  May 2008 (8)
      □ ►  Jun 2008 (8)
      □ ►  Jul 2008 (4)
      □ ►  Aug 2008 (6)
      □ ►  Sep 2008 (8)
      □ ►  Oct 2008 (5)
      □ ►  Nov 2008 (3)
      □ ►  Dec 2008 (2)

  • ►  2009 (138)
      □ ►  Jan 2009 (11)
      □ ►  Feb 2009 (5)
      □ ►  Mar 2009 (9)
      □ ►  Apr 2009 (7)
      □ ►  May 2009 (6)
      □ ►  Jun 2009 (9)
      □ ►  Jul 2009 (17)
      □ ►  Aug 2009 (9)
      □ ►  Sep 2009 (14)
      □ ►  Oct 2009 (29)
      □ ►  Nov 2009 (11)
      □ ►  Dec 2009 (11)

  • ►  2010 (174)
      □ ►  Jan 2010 (17)
      □ ►  Feb 2010 (35)
      □ ►  Mar 2010 (28)
      □ ►  Apr 2010 (13)
      □ ►  May 2010 (8)
      □ ►  Jun 2010 (21)
      □ ►  Jul 2010 (8)
      □ ►  Aug 2010 (12)
      □ ►  Sep 2010 (6)
      □ ►  Oct 2010 (11)
      □ ►  Nov 2010 (8)
      □ ►  Dec 2010 (7)

  • ►  2011 (82)
      □ ►  Jan 2011 (8)
      □ ►  Feb 2011 (4)
      □ ►  Mar 2011 (9)
      □ ►  Apr 2011 (12)
      □ ►  May 2011 (7)
      □ ►  Jun 2011 (6)
      □ ►  Jul 2011 (4)
      □ ►  Aug 2011 (6)
      □ ►  Sep 2011 (13)
      □ ►  Oct 2011 (5)
      □ ►  Nov 2011 (6)
      □ ►  Dec 2011 (2)

  • ►  2012 (108)
      □ ►  Jan 2012 (3)
      □ ►  Feb 2012 (5)
      □ ►  Mar 2012 (12)
      □ ►  Apr 2012 (12)
      □ ►  May 2012 (10)
      □ ►  Jun 2012 (6)
      □ ►  Jul 2012 (9)
      □ ►  Aug 2012 (5)
      □ ►  Sep 2012 (10)
      □ ►  Oct 2012 (14)
      □ ►  Nov 2012 (13)
      □ ►  Dec 2012 (9)

  • ►  2013 (89)
      □ ►  Jan 2013 (10)
      □ ►  Feb 2013 (6)
      □ ►  Mar 2013 (6)
      □ ►  Apr 2013 (4)
      □ ►  May 2013 (11)
      □ ►  Jun 2013 (4)
      □ ►  Jul 2013 (10)
      □ ►  Aug 2013 (10)
      □ ►  Sep 2013 (6)
      □ ►  Oct 2013 (5)
      □ ►  Nov 2013 (10)
      □ ►  Dec 2013 (7)

  • ►  2014 (161)
      □ ►  Jan 2014 (13)
      □ ►  Feb 2014 (12)
      □ ►  Mar 2014 (5)
      □ ►  Apr 2014 (9)
      □ ►  May 2014 (15)
      □ ►  Jun 2014 (13)
      □ ►  Jul 2014 (29)
      □ ►  Aug 2014 (10)
      □ ►  Sep 2014 (5)
      □ ►  Oct 2014 (15)
      □ ►  Nov 2014 (14)
      □ ►  Dec 2014 (21)

  • ▼  2015 (97)
      □ ►  Jan 2015 (11)
      □ ►  Feb 2015 (11)
      □ ►  Mar 2015 (13)
      □ ►  Apr 2015 (19)
      □ ►  May 2015 (15)
      □ ►  Jun 2015 (10)
      □ ►  Jul 2015 (7)
      □ ►  Aug 2015 (1)
      □ ►  Sep 2015 (4)
      □ ►  Nov 2015 (2)
      □ ▼  Dec 2015 (4)
          ☆ That's what Hanukkah is all about, Charlie Brown
          ☆ Is that from the Bible or the Quran?
          ☆ The Misuse of 1 Corinthians 7 by Anti-Gay Christia...
          ☆ Which is more violent, the Bible or the Quran?

●

Contributors

  • Steve Wells
  • Philip Wells

●
●
[INS::INS]
●
●

Follow by Email
                                
[                    ] [Submit]

●
 
Watermark template. Powered by Blogger.
●
