  
Search for: [Search]
Freethought Debater

Resources for America's Atheists

Search

Search for: [Search]
Main menu

Skip to content

Evolution Creation

The Biomorph Demonstration

by P. Wesley Edwards • April 2, 2012 • 0 Comments

In his book, The Blind Watchmaker, Richard Dawkins makes a powerful case for
evolution, while debunking the all too common misconceptions regarding the role
of “chance” in evolution. Dawkins shows that evolution is a fundamentally
non-random process. Chance is important…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Evolution Creation

An Introduction to the Evolution versus Creation Debate

by P. Wesley Edwards • March 24, 2012 • 0 Comments

The evolution / creation debate hinges largely on a disagreement regarding the
nature of science and scientific theories. Before getting into that, however,
it will be important to address the common misconception that evolution and
atheism are somehow two sides…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Critical Thinking

Understanding Reason and Faith

by P. Wesley Edwards • March 23, 2012 • 0 Comments

The debate between faith and reason is in many ways the decisive battleground
in the debate between theism and atheism. This is because most defenses of
theism appeal to the inadequacy of reason. Typically these defenses will take
the form…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Bible Criticsm

Bible Accuracy

by P. Wesley Edwards • March 23, 2012 • 0 Comments

The question of Bible accuracy is important in many debates, particularly those
regarding creationism and certain defenses of Christianity. Creationism is, in
fact, an attempt to make science compatible with the fundamentalist requirement
of Biblical literalism and infallibility. Christian theism…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Critical Thinking

Atheism, Agnosticism, and Burden of Proof

by P. Wesley Edwards • March 3, 2012 • 0 Comments

“How can you be an atheist if you cannot disprove the existence of God?” This
all-too-common question is often related to a misunderstanding of the concept
of burden of proof, of how that concept relates to belief, and of how…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Bible Criticsm

The Bible: A Manual for Living?

by P. Wesley Edwards • December 30, 2011 • 1 Comment

Christians often take great pride in their ability to cite Biblical verse on a
wide range of issues, and this is certainly understandable since they believe
that the Bible is the Word of God.  Fundamentalists, in fact, see it as…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Bible Criticsm

Bible Errors and Contradictions

by P. Wesley Edwards • December 30, 2011 • 33 Comments

Bible debates, perhaps more than any other debate topic, can become lost in
endless details of interpretation and subtle questions of translation.  It can
easily seem that to get into the debate at all requires one to be a Biblical…

Read more →

Share this:

  • Twitter
  • 

Page 1 of 2
1 2 >>

Comments

  • pipoy u. on Bible Errors and Contradictions
  • Peter Vreeland on Bible Errors and Contradictions
  • Zack on Bible Errors and Contradictions
  • Simon Ontoyin on The Bible: A Manual for Living?
  • EthanDee on Bible Errors and Contradictions

Copyright (C) 2016 Freethought Debater. All Rights Reserved. The Magazine Basic
Theme by bavotasan.com.

