  • Rankings & Advice
      □ Education
      □ Health
      □ Money
      □ Travel
      □ Cars
      □ Law Firms
  • News
  • U.S. News Home

[homepage-logo-166x4] News
Facebook Twitter
News, Opinion & Analysis
[                    ]
  • News
      □ Ken Walsh's Washington
      □ Decision 2016
      □ The Run 2016
      □ The Chase
      □ Washington Whispers
      □ At the Edge
      □ Data Mine
      □ Special Reports
  • Opinion
  • National Issues
  • Best Countries
  • Cartoons
  • Photos
  • The Report
  • 

Leaving Religion Behind: A Portrait of Nonreligious America

Nonreligious Americans represent the fastest-growing part of the nation's
religious landscape.

By Dan Gilgoff March 13, 2009, at 12:34 p.m. + More

  •  
  •  
  •  

  • 
  •  
  •  
  •  

When Greg Epstein arrived as humanist chaplain at Harvard University four years
ago, just a handful of students would show up at his events, intended for
nonreligious young people looking for a values system and a sense of community.
The school's humanist chaplain, first installed on campus in the 1970s, had
always taken what Epstein calls a "shy, retiring approach to his presence on
campus."

But not Epstein. "The watchword now for young humanists and nonreligious
communities like mine around the country is that we're going to be loud and
proud," he says. "The time has come to recognize that whatever you choose to
call us nonreligious people, we are an integral part of society and culture."

The message has found a receptive audience. All 1,000 tickets to Harvard's big
annual event for secular humanists next month—a ceremony to present a humanist
lifetime achievement award—have already been sold. And Epstein can't schedule
more events quickly enough. "An enormous number of young people have left
traditional religion behind," he says. "I'm overwhelmed by the number of people
coming to me."

The phenomenon is hardly limited to the elite confines of Harvard Square. In
fact, Epstein and the nonreligious students he leads are part of the
fastest-growing demographic on the American religious landscape: those who
claim no religion whatsoever.

According to a comprehensive national survey released this week by the Program
on Public Values at Trinity College, those identifying with no religious
tradition, or as atheists or agnostics, account for 15 percent of the
population, up from about 8 percent in 1990. "No religion" Americans are the
only religious demographic that's growing in every single state.

And in northeastern states like Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, and
Maine, the "no religion" group has surged even more dramatically, shooting up
300 percent in the last 20 years and now accounting for a quarter or more of
the population.

With as many Americans identifying as "no religion" as there are mainline
Christians, Jews, and Mormons in the United States combined, the Trinity
College survey has helped create a portrait of an exploding secular tradition
that reveals commonalities beyond lack of belief.

It turns out that Harvard's Epstein, 32, is pretty typical. The Trinity College
report, called the American Religious Identification Survey, finds that 60
percent of the nonreligious are men. They tend to be young, accounting for one
in every three American adults under age 35. According to Trinity College
Professor Barry Kosmin, a large chunk have baby boomer parents who came of age
in the 1960s and wound up rejecting religion.

And Kosmin says that many of the 750,000 additional American adults who each
year identify as having "no religion" are reacting to what he calls the
"triumphalism and judgementalism of the Christian right."

A full quarter of those identifying as "no religion" in the Trinity College
report are former Catholics, many of whom were turned off by the church sex
abuse scandals of the past decade. That helps explain why the Northeast now
rivals the Mountain states and the Pacific Northwest—whose frontier beginnings
established rugged individualist traditions that resisted organized
religions—as the most secular parts of the country. "Despite the population
growth, New England has lost 1 million Catholics" in the last decade, says
Kosmin. "The trend in the Catholic Church has been obscured by the large number
of people from Latin America who've filled the pews as the Irish Americans left
them."

Other religious traditions feeding the "no religion" boom are Judaism and Asian
religions like Buddhism and Hinduism. While people who leave mainline
Protestant churches often find new spiritual homes in evangelical or
nondenominational megachurches, the Trinity survey shows that former Catholics,
Jews, Buddhists, and Hindus are much more likely to abandon religion
altogether. Nearly half of "no religion" Americans come from Irish, Jewish, or
Asian backgrounds.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
1 2 >


TAGS:
    religion

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

+ More

You Might Also Like

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • President Barack Obama boards Air Force One at Yangon International Airport
    on Friday, Nov. 14, 2014, in Yangon, Myanmar, for the G-20 summit in
    Brisbane, Australia.

    Obama Behind the Scenes

  • Editorial cartoon on Obama and gun control

    Gun Control Cartoons

  • Editorial cartoon on Obama

    Obama Cartoons

[]

5 Things to Know About the Economy This Week: 1/22/2016

By Andrew Soergel | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Abortion Emerges as Key Campaign Issue

By Susan Milligan | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Billionaires Could Eradicate Extreme Poverty, Report Says

By Andrew Soergel | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Refugees a Near-Term Mixed Blessing for European Economies, Says IMF

By Andrew Soergel | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

The Privacy, Security Risks of the Internet of Things

By Tom Risen | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Marijuana Pills May Treat Epilepsy

By Rachel Dicker | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

U.S. Confirms 2 Civilians Killed in Airstrike, Bringing Total to 16

By Paul D. Shinkman | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Christie Backtracks, Leaves Campaign Trail

By Gabrielle Levy | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Obama Administration Moves to Curb Methane Emissions

By Alan Neuhauser | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Vaccine Efforts Underway as Zika Virus Spreads

By Steve Sternberg | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

It's On: National Review, 22 Conservatives Openly Denounce Trump

By Gabrielle Levy | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Should You Believe Sanders’ Surge in CNN Polls?

By Gabrielle Levy | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Freed Pastor Saeed Abedini Thought He Might Die in Iranian Custody

By Paul D. Shinkman | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

North Korea Says It Has Detained American University of Virginia Student

By Teresa Welsh | Jan. 22, 2016

[]

Postal Service 'Unlikely' to Make Health and Pension Payments

By Andrew Soergel | Jan. 21, 2016

[]

Education Secretary John King Apologizes for Politicized Education Atmosphere

By Lauren Camera | Jan. 21, 2016

[]

Here's What the Zika Virus Looks Like

By Steve Sternberg | Jan. 21, 2016

[]

Fiorina Campaign Denies 'Ambush' of Pre-Schoolers

By Gabrielle Levy | Jan. 21, 2016

[]

U.S. Restricts Visa-Free Travel to Enhance National Security

By Teresa Welsh | Jan. 21, 2016

[]

Looming Snowstorm Threatens at Least 50 Million Across U.S.

By Max Miceli | Jan. 21, 2016

See More

Latest Videos

[150429repo]

Thank you, your email has been submitted.

[Subscribe]
[                    ]
Latest Galleries

Photos: Paris, 1 Year After Charlie Hebdo

News

Photos: Paris, 1 Year After Charlie Hebdo

Photos: Famous Faces Who Died in 2015

News

Photos: Famous Faces Who Died in 2015

Scenes From Europe's Migrant Crisis

News

Scenes From Europe's Migrant Crisis

Photos: The Real Impact of Climate Change

The Report

Photos: The Real Impact of Climate Change

Photos: Syria's Ongoing Civil War

News

Photos: Syria's Ongoing Civil War

Follow U.S. News

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Google+
  • LinkedIn
  • rss58x58.png

Data Mine

Could Universal Health Care Save U.S. Taxpayers Money?

More Americans Are Living to Be Older than 100

Why the Iowa Caucuses Matter to the 2016 Presidential Election

See More Posts

Editor's Picks

5 Things to Know About the Economy This Week: 1/22/2016

Billionaires Could Eradicate Extreme Poverty, Report Says

History Teaches That Candidates Like Trump Win Support but Not Presidency

Refugees a Near-Term Mixed Blessing for European Economies, Says IMF

Obama Administration Moves to Curb Methane Emissions

News

  • News Home
  • Opinion
  • National Issues
  • Cartoons
  • Photos
  • Videos
  • Special Reports
  • The Report

Rankings & Consumer Advice

  • Education

      □ Colleges
      □ Graduate Schools
      □ High Schools
      □ Online Programs
      □ Community Colleges
      □ Global Universities
      □ Arab Universities
  • Health

      □ Hospitals
      □ Doctor Finder
      □ Diets
      □ Nursing Homes
      □ Health Products
      □ Health Insurance
      □ Medicare
  • Money

      □ Jobs
      □ Financial Advisors
      □ ETFs
      □ Mutual Funds
      □ Retirement
  • Travel

      □ Vacations
      □ Cruises
      □ Hotels
      □ Hotel Rewards
      □ Airline Rewards
  • Cars

      □ New Cars
      □ Used Cars

    Law

      □ Law Firms

[homepage-l]

  • About U.S. News
  • Contact Us
  • Store
  • Site Map

  • Press Room
  • Advertising Info
  • Ads – Self-Service

Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Google+

Copyright 2016 (C) U.S. News & World Report LP.
Terms and Conditions / Privacy Policy.

