Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely.

  ‚Ä¢ Skip Navigation

  ‚Ä¢ Sign In
  ‚Ä¢ Subscribe
  ‚Ä¢ Search
    Search
    SearchCancelüîç

Toggle navigation Gallup
Menu

  ‚Ä¢ Topics
      ‚ñ° World
          ‚òÜ Americas
          ‚òÜ Asia-Pacific
          ‚òÜ Europe
          ‚òÜ Middle East & North Africa
          ‚òÜ Sub-Saharan Africa
      ‚ñ° U.S.
          ‚òÜ Economy
          ‚òÜ Education
          ‚òÜ Politics
          ‚òÜ Well-Being
      ‚ñ° Business
          ‚òÜ B2B
          ‚òÜ Employee Engagement
          ‚òÜ Customer Engagement
          ‚òÜ Financial Services
          ‚òÜ Entrepreneurship
          ‚òÜ Healthcare
          ‚òÜ Hospitality
          ‚òÜ Leadership
          ‚òÜ Manufacturing
          ‚òÜ Marketplace
          ‚òÜ Retail
          ‚òÜ Strengths
  ‚Ä¢ Client Services
      ‚ñ° Strategic Consulting
          ‚òÜ Q12 Employee Engagement
          ‚òÜ Customer Engagement
          ‚òÜ Supplier Engagement
          ‚òÜ B2B
          ‚òÜ Leadership & Coaching
          ‚òÜ Strengths-Based Culture
          ‚òÜ Behavioral Economics
          ‚òÜ Entrepreneurship
          ‚òÜ Learning & Development
          ‚òÜ Talent-Based Hiring
          ‚òÜ Organizational Identity
          ‚òÜ Government
          ‚òÜ Well-Being
      ‚ñ° Education
          ‚òÜ K-12
          ‚òÜ Higher Education
      ‚ñ° Global Analytics
          ‚òÜ Gallup Panel
          ‚òÜ World Poll
          ‚òÜ U.S. Daily Tracking
          ‚òÜ Survey Research
          ‚òÜ Analytics Teams
  ‚Ä¢ Online Products
      ‚ñ° Strengths
          ‚òÜ Clifton StrengthsFinder
          ‚òÜ High-Performance Management Course
          ‚òÜ Strengths Coaching Courses
      ‚ñ° Engagement
          ‚òÜ Q12 Employee Engagement Center
          ‚òÜ Faith Member Engagement
      ‚ñ° Schools & Universities
          ‚òÜ Gallup Student Poll
          ‚òÜ Strengths Courses for Educators
          ‚òÜ StrengthsQuest
      ‚ñ° U.S. & World Poll
          ‚òÜ Gallup Analytics
      ‚ñ° Entrepreneurship
          ‚òÜ Entrepreneurial Profile 10
          ‚òÜ Coaching Entrepreneurial Talents Course
      ‚ñ° Books & Merchandise
          ‚òÜ Gallup Press
          ‚òÜ Gallup Store

Mississippi Maintains Hold as Most Religious U.S. State
Politics
February 13, 2013

  ‚Ä¢ Print
  ‚Ä¢ Share
  ‚Ä¢ Share on Facebook
  ‚Ä¢ Share on Twitter
  ‚Ä¢ Share on LinkedIn

Close

Share this Story

Share this article with friends.

Share Link [http://www.gallup.co]
Share:

  ‚Ä¢ Share on Facebook
  ‚Ä¢ Share on Twitter
  ‚Ä¢ Share on LinkedIn

Mississippi Maintains Hold as Most Religious U.S. State

by Frank Newport

Vermont is the least religious

PRINCETON, NJ -- Mississippi remained the most religious state in the union in
2012, with 58% of its residents classified as very religious. At the other end
of the spectrum, Vermont remained the least religious state, with 19% of its
residents classified as very religious.

Most Religious States, Based on % Very Religious, 2012Least Religious States,
Based on % Very Religious

These state-by-state results are based on more than 348,000 interviews
conducted as part of Gallup Daily tracking in 2012, including more than 1,000
interviews conducted in all but two states and the District of Columbia.
Complete results and sample sizes are on Page 2.

Overall, 40% of Americans nationwide were classified as very religious in 2012
-- based on saying religion is an important part of their daily life and that
they attend religious services every week or almost every week. Thirty-one
percent of Americans were nonreligious, saying religion is not an important
part of their daily life and that they seldom or never attend religious
services. The remaining 29% of Americans were moderately religious, saying
religion is important in their lives but that they do not attend services
regularly, or that religion is not important but that they still attend
services.

The 2012 nationwide proportions of very religious, moderately religious, and
nonreligious Americans are all within one percentage point of where they were
in 2011. Underscoring this stability, a comparison of the top 10 religious
states in 2012 with those in 2011 shows no change -- either in the states that
constitute the top 10 or in their rank order. The group of states categorized
as least religious was almost as constant between 2011 and 2012. The only
change other than minor rank-order differences is the inclusion of Hawaii in
the least religious list this year in place of New York.

Eight of the top 10 religious states are in the South -- basically comprising
the entire Southern belt from Georgia and the two Carolinas on the Atlantic
coast through Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi, to Louisiana and Arkansas in
the west. The states outside the Southern belt are Utah -- with its strongly
religious majority Mormon population -- and Oklahoma, which straddles the
border between the South and the Midwest.

The 12 least religious states comprise the entirety of New England -- Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut -- along
with the three most Northwestern states in the union, Alaska, Washington, and
Oregon, plus the District of Columbia, Nevada, and Hawaii.

Implications

America remains a religious nation -- with about seven in 10 Americans
classified as very or moderately religious -- but these patterns of religion
are quite varied across the regions of the country. Southern states and Utah
are the most religious areas in the nation, while New England states and those
in the far Northwest are the least religious. There has been little change in
these patterns over the past year.

There are a number of explanations for the substantial differences in
religiousness across the states of the union, but analysis included in the
recent book God Is Alive and Well shows that the differences are not accounted
for by state demographics such as race and ethnicity, or -- with the exception
of Utah -- by the type of religion that predominates in each state. More likely
the differences reflect regional cultural traditions.

The posited existence of state cultures of religion suggests that migrants who
cross state lines could be socialized into the religious patterns of the states
to which they move. In other words, it can be hypothesized that a person moving
to Mississippi is more likely to become personally more religious than if that
same person moved to Vermont. Some evidence suggests there has been more
migration to religious states than to nonreligious states over the past decade
or so. If that is the case, and if it continues, it's possible that this will
effectively increase the overall level of religiosity in the nation, or at
least moderate a decrease in religiousness.

Gallup's "State of the States" series reveals state-by-state differences on
political, economic, and wellbeing measures Gallup tracks each day. New stories
based on full-year 2012 data will be released throughout the month of February.

Survey Methods

Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews conducted Jan.
1-Dec. 31, 2012, on the Gallup Daily tracking survey, with a random sample of
348,306 adults, aged 18 and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the
District of Columbia.

For results based on the total sample of national adults, one can say with 95%
confidence that the margin of sampling error is ¬±1 percentage point.

Margins of error for individual states are no greater than ¬±6 percentage
points, and are ¬±3 percentage points in most states. The margin of error for
the District of Columbia is ¬±6 percentage points.

Interviews are conducted with respondents on landline telephones and cellular
phones, with interviews conducted in Spanish for respondents who are primarily
Spanish-speaking. Each national sample includes a minimum quota of 400 cell
phone respondents and 600 landline respondents per 1,000 national adults, with
additional minimum quotas among landline respondents by region. Landline
telephone numbers are chosen at random among listed telephone numbers. Cell
phones numbers are selected using random digit dial methods. Landline
respondents are chosen at random within each household on the basis of which
member had the most recent birthday.

State samples are weighted to be representative of the state's adult population
by gender, age, race, Hispanic ethnicity, and education based on the March 2012
Current Population Survey. All reported margins of sampling error include the
computed design effects for weighting.

In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in
conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public
opinion polls.

For more details on Gallup's polling methodology, visit www.gallup.com.

                                       
                          Religiosity by State, 2012

Get Articles in Related Topics:

  ‚Ä¢ USA
  ‚Ä¢ All Gallup Headlines
  ‚Ä¢ Government
  ‚Ä¢ Politics
  ‚Ä¢ Religion
  ‚Ä¢ Religion and Social Trends
  ‚Ä¢ State of the States
  ‚Ä¢ Northern America

Gallup Daily

Gallup Good Jobs     45.3% -
Engaged at Work      32.0% +0.1
Economic Confidence  -14   -2
Consumer Spending    $84   -7
Obama Approval       49%   -

Updates daily at 1 p.m.ET; reflects one-day change.
 
[gif][xfweuiiheuipvck4ajkhtq]
Politics

Obama Averages 46.2% Job Approval in Year Seven

by Jeffrey M. Jones
Report

 

U.S. Leadership Loses Ground in Africa, Asia

The U.S.-Global Leadership Report: What people worldwide think of U.S.
leadership

Related News

What the Whole World Is Thinking

Politics
Jan 10, 2013

In U.S., Rise in Religious "Nones" Slows in 2012

Politics
Dec 24, 2012

In U.S., 77% Identify as Christian

Politics
Dec 5, 2012

Religion Big Factor for Americans Against Same-Sex Marriage

Politics
Dec 4, 2012

Seven in 10 Americans Are Very or Moderately Religious

[gif][sno4ribveegxe-i679eu1w]
Opinion
Oct 28, 2015

Republicans Like Paul Ryan, But Will They Turn on Him?

by Lydia Saad

February 13, 2013
Gallup http://www.gallup.com/poll/160415/
mississippi-maintains-hold-religious-state.aspx
Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A
+1 202.715.3030

Latest News

Economy
Jan 22, 2016

Eight in 10 U.S. Investors Can Stomach Market Downturns

Most U.S. investors in a recent Wells Fargo/Gallup Investor and Retirement
Optimism Index survey said they have high (25%) or moderate (56%) tolerance for
sharp market downturns. Just 18% said they had little or no tolerance.

Election 2016
Jan 22, 2016

At Least One Candidate Would Be Good President, 66% in U.S. Say

Two in three Americans believe the 2016 presidential field has at least one
candidate who would make a good president. A minority (37%) say the conduct of
the campaign is a sign the election process is working as it should.

Analytics and Advice About Everything That Matters
World
Jan 22, 2016

Iranians, Egyptians Give China‚Äôs Leadership Higher Marks

In both Egypt and Iran, China's leadership is rated more positively than the
leadership of other major world powers. U.S. leadership approval is nearly
twice as high in Iran (19%) as in Egypt (10%).

Economy
Jan 21, 2016

Americans‚Äô Satisfaction With Ability to Get Ahead Edges Up

Sixty-two percent of Americans are satisfied with the ability of a person to
get ahead by working hard, up slightly from recent years. Only 29% are
satisfied with the distribution of income and wealth in the U.S.

Politics
Jan 21, 2016

Obama Averages 46.2% Job Approval in Year Seven

President Barack Obama averaged 46.2% job approval during his seventh year in
office, an improvement from his 42.6% year six average. He has averaged a 47%
job approval rating throughout his presidency.

Economy
Jan 20, 2016

Majority of Americans Dissatisfied With Corporate Influence

A majority of Americans are dissatisfied with corporations' size and influence.
Americans are also dissatisfied with government regulation of businesses, and
those who are dissatisfied slightly favor less regulation rather than more.

Election 2016
Jan 20, 2016

Americans: Best and Worst Things About a Trump Presidency 

Americans have stronger views on the downsides of a potential Donald Trump
presidency than on the positives, and in particular cite the effect of his
personality traits. His views on immigration and the economy are seen as both
positives and negatives.

Politics
Jan 19, 2016

Personal Satisfaction in U.S. High, but Not Fully Recovered

U.S. adults' satisfaction with how things are going in their personal life
continues to recover after the percentage very satisfied dipped below 50%
during the recent recession. Still, at 53%, satisfaction falls short of the 55%
to 59% range seen in the years prior.

Well-Being
Jan 19, 2016

Blacks Least Likely Among U.S. Racial Groups to Say Home Ideal

In the U.S., blacks are less likely than whites, Asians and Hispanics to agree
that their house or apartment is ideal for them. Blacks are also the least
likely to agree that their city is the perfect place for them.

Economy
Jan 19, 2016

U.S. Economic Confidence Index Improves, Highest Since June

Gallup's U.S. Economic Confidence Index improved markedly last week, rising
five points to -7 for the week ending Jan. 17. The current score is the highest
since June.

OUR COMPANY

  ‚Ä¢ About Gallup
  ‚Ä¢ Methodology Center
  ‚Ä¢ George Gallup
  ‚Ä¢ Careers at Gallup
  ‚Ä¢ Senior Scientists and Advisers
  ‚Ä¢ Global Offices
  ‚Ä¢ Media & Speaker Inquiries
  ‚Ä¢ Trends A-Z

INQUIRIES

  ‚Ä¢ Questions, comments and observations
  ‚Ä¢ Questions about your Gallup.com account
  ‚Ä¢ Have a Gallup expert contact you
  ‚Ä¢ Request a Gallup expert for a speaking engagement

FOLLOW US

  ‚Ä¢ Twitter
  ‚Ä¢ Facebook
  ‚Ä¢ LinkedIn
  ‚Ä¢ YouTube

Copyright ¬© 2016 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved.

  ‚Ä¢ Privacy Statement
  ‚Ä¢ Terms of Use

Copyright ¬© 2016 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved.
Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks that
include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index, Business Impact
Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton StrengthsExplorer, Clifton
StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index, Customer Engagement Management, Dr.
Gallup Portrait, Employee Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index,
Follow This Path, Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup
Consulting, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ,
Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University, Gallup
World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3, ME25,
NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance Optimization,
Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12 Advantage, Selection
Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City, Strengths Spotlight,
Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach, StrengthsExplorer,
StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest, SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=
P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The Gallup Poll, The Gallup School,
VantagePoint, Varsity Management, Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator,
Adaptability, Analytical, Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication,
Competition, Connectedness, Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer,
Discipline, Empathy, Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer,
Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer, Positivity,
Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance, Significance, Strategic,
and Woo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
These materials are provided for noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction
prohibited without the express permission of Gallup, Inc.

