  • home
  • contact
  • donate
  • media
  • meetup
  • facebook
  • twitter
  • merchandise

The Oklahoma Atheists The Oklahoma Atheists The Oklahoma Atheists The Oklahoma
Atheists

  • home
  • contact
  • donate
  • media
  • meetup
  • facebook
  • twitter
  • merchandise

 

  • [transparen]
    [pizza]
    Want to hang out with the Oklahoma Atheists?
    JOIN MEETUP!
  • [transparen]
    [IMG_1557]
    MAKE A DIFFERENCE
    Volunteer with the Oklahoma Atheists!
  • [transparen]
    [pattern01-]
    [parenting]
  • [transparen]
    [gradient]
    [godcast]
  • [transparen]
    [pattern02]
    [norman_nat]
  • [banner_img02]
    Atheist & Secular Oklahomans Lobby Day
    Tuesday, February 23, 2016 at 9:00 AM
    GET INVOLVED!
    [banner_img]

.

 

WHAT IS AN “ATHEIST”?

An atheist is a person who disbelieves or lacks belief in the existence of God
or gods. Simply put, an atheist does not believe in the supernatural. However,
as active members in society, we do believe that we have a responsibility to
improve the lives of others and strive to build an active and supportive
community regardless of one’s belief or lack of.

WHO ARE THE OKLAHOMA ATHEISTS?

The Oklahoma Atheists (AOK) is a non-profit American organization founded in
1999 to establish a community of atheists, freethinkers, and other
non-religious people living in Oklahoma City and throughout the greater
Oklahoma City metropolitan area. The organization is a local affiliate of the
democratic society Atheist Alliance International (AAI) and therefore has
ratified formal by-laws and holds elections for officers annually.

WHAT IS OUR MISSION?

The mission of the Oklahoma Atheists (AOK) is to develop a community of
individuals and families who value and promote critical thinking, free-thought,
reason and a scientific worldview. We oppose the blind acceptance of faith and
dogma. We also seek to have a positive effect on the community at large through
fellowship, ethical and rational discussion, community service, and education.

Further, we work in coalition with like-minded organizations where joint action
is needed to achieve these goals. This organization shall operate in an open,
transparent, democratic manner, without discrimination as to gender, race, age,
sexual orientation, ethnic origin, nationality, disability, or political
affiliation.

WHAT ARE OUR CORE VALUES?

Community
We host an event nearly every day, including dinners, game nights, fitness
outings, support groups, and holiday parties.

Education
We maintain a monthly lecture series where members or invited experts share
knowledge on a wide variety of topics.

Volunteering
Many of our members enjoy helping others, so we organize regular volunteering
events such as helping out at the local food bank.

Activism
We strongly believe in concepts such as the separation of church and state, and
we do our part to protect these rights for everyone.

HOW TO BECOME A MEMBER OF AOK?

Would you like to become a member of AOK? Please join our free Meetup group and
apply for membership www.Meetup.com/OklahomaAtheists. Please fill out the “New
Member” application online. A representative of AOK will contact you. Privacy
for all members is important.

Contact Us

We're currently offline. Send us an email and we'll get back to you, asap.

[                    ]

[                    ]

[                    ]

Send Message 
  • Agnostics, Atheists & Freethinkers at OCCC
  • American Atheists
  • Camp Quest
  • Freedom From Religion Foundation
  • Interfaith Alliance
  • Iron Chariots

  • Norman Naturalism Group
  • OKC Secular Parenting Group
  • Oklahoma Atheists Godcast
  • RationalWiki
  • Secular Policy Institute
  • United Coalition of Reason

© 2016 · Oklahoma Atheists.com

  • home
  • contact
  • donate
  • media
  • meetup
  • facebook
  • twitter
  • merchandise

 

Type and press Enter to search

[                    ]
