Using a mobile device? Go to m.huffingtonpost.com for huffpost mobile.

  • Daily Meditation

iOS app Android app More
Desktop Alerts Log in Create Account

  • 
      □ Profile
      □ Settings
      □ Logout

Atheism

Edition: U.S.

  • AR عربي (Arabic)
  • AU Australia
  • BR Brasil
  • CA Canada
  • DE Deutschland
  • ES Espan~a
  • FR France
  • GR Ελλάδα (Greece)
  • IN India
  • IT Italia
  • JP 日本 (Japan)
  • KR 한국 (Korea)
  • MG Maghreb
  • UK United Kingdom
  • US United States

Follow

  • FRONT PAGE
  • Healthy Living
      □ The Quote That Totally Changed My Life
      □ An Illustrated Guide To The Zika Outbreak
      □ 7 Ways To Optimize Your Coffee Drinking Routine
      □ Katie Holmes Just Nailed What It Means To Be Happy
      □ Lena Dunham Shuts Down Mental Illness Stereotypes In New Photos
      □ 
        Go to Healthy Living
    More in Healthy Living
      □ GPS for the Soul
      □ Health And Fitness
      □ Health News
      □ Becoming Fearless
      □ Sleep + Wellness
    You might also like
      □ Food
      □ Post 50
      □ Taste
      □ Religion
      □ OWN
  • Politics
      □ Bernie Sanders Doesn't Support Reparations. Why Is That So Surprising?
        14
      □ Potentially Record-Breaking Blizzard Hits East Coast
      □ 'Against Trump' Writer Surprised By 'Openly Racist And Anti-Semitic'
        Response10
      □ Deadly Blizzard Buries East Coast In Snow, Flood Waters
      □ Veterans Aren't Having Sarah Palin's PTSD Scapegoating34
      □ 
        Go to Politics
    More in Politics
      □ Pollster
      □ Election Maps
      □ '16 And President
      □ Trail To The Chief
      □ Candidate Confessional
    You might also like
      □ WorldPost
      □ Green
      □ Black Voices
      □ Latino Voices
      □ Gay Voices
  • WorldPost
      □ Why North Korea's Arrest Of An American College Student Should Come As
        No Surprise
      □ 4 Dead, Suspect Caught In Canada School Shooting
      □ Newlywed Man's Death In Australia Prompts Calls For Marriage Equality
      □ Greek Prime Minister Shares Hope For Country's Future With Arianna
        Huffington In Davos
      □ Why You Need To Be Worried About This Week’s Terror Attack In Pakistan
      □ 
        Go to WorldPost
    More in WorldPost
      □ Foreign Affairs
      □ Drug War
      □ Afghanistan
      □ Syria Conflict
      □ World Videos
    You might also like
      □ Travel
      □ Politics
      □ Business
      □ Tech
      □ Religion
  • Arts
      □ The Mystery Of John. K And His Trove Of Erotic Polaroids
      □ Lost Erotica Of Spain Reveals An Overlooked Feminist History (NSFW)
      □ Ballet To Adele's 'All I Ask' Is As Breathtaking As You'd Imagine
      □ What Broadway's 'Hamilton' Can Teach Hollywood About Diversity
      □ 'The Bachelor' Is Letting Its Race Issues Show, But That's Not Enough
      □ 
        Go to Arts
    More in Arts
      □ Painting
      □ Film
      □ Design
      □ Photography
      □ Theater
      □ Architecture
    You might also like
      □ Books
      □ NY
      □ Los Angeles
  • Impact
      □ How A Stubborn Pediatrician Forced The State To Take Flint's Water
        Crisis Seriously
      □ Not Everyone Is Dreading Winter Storm Jonas
      □ GoFundMe Will Donate Extra $10,000 To Largest Fundraiser For Flint
      □ The Malala Fund And Toms Made A Scarf To Fund Girls' Education
      □ Leonardo DiCaprio Attacks Big Oil's 'Corporate Greed' At Davos
      □ 
        Go to Impact
    More in Impact
      □ Opportunity
      □ Everyday Heroes
      □ Charity
      □ Homelessness
      □ Volunteering
      □ Heroes
    You might also like
      □ Education
      □ Black Voices
      □ Gay Voices
      □ Latino Voices
  • Science
      □ The Reason We Haven't Found Alien Life May Be A Very Sad One
      □ I Have Terrifying Large Insects Sting Me, For Science
      □ If You Tend To Slip Up Under Pressure, This New Study Is For You
      □ 'Bombshell' Study Shows Our Brains Are Even More Awesome Than We Knew
      □ The Incredible Things Your Brain Does While You're Sleeping
      □ 
        Go to Science
    More in Science
      □ Space
      □ Brain
      □ Earth
      □ Talk Nerdy To Me
      □ Weird Science
    You might also like
      □ Tech
      □ Green
      □ Arts
      □ Religion
      □ Weird News
  • Women
      □ Black And White Photos Show No Survivor Of Abuse 'Asked For It'
      □ The 20 Funniest Tweets From Women This Week
      □ Female Lawmakers In Kansas Are Not Having It With This Bullsh*t Dress
        Code
      □ Here's How Crazy It Was To Get An Abortion Before Roe v. Wade
      □ The Fascinating Story Of The Woman At The Center Of Roe v. Wade
      □ 
        Go to Women
    More in Women
      □ Love & Sex
      □ Career & Money
      □ Women's Health
    You might also like
      □ Style
      □ Weddings
      □ Divorce
      □ Parents
      □ Healthy Living
      □ Black Voices
      □ Latino Voices
  • Black Voices
      □ Macklemore's New Song 'White Privilege II' Prompts All Sorts Of
        Reactions12
      □ In One Quote, Viola Davis Nails The Academy Award's Diversity Issue
      □ Daniel Holtzclaw, Former Oklahoma Cop, Gets 263 Years For Rape, Sex
        Assault30
      □ Daniel Holtzclaw's Victims Say Their Lives Are Forever Changed
      □ Jesse Williams Created A GIF Keyboard App, And It's Lit
      □ 
        Go to Black Voices
    More in Black Voices
      □ The Current
      □ Pop Culture
      □ Fashion & Beauty
      □ Living in the Black
      □ Sunday Magazine
    You might also like
      □ Latino Voices
      □ Gay Voices
      □ Arts
      □ Comedy
      □ Food
  • Gay Voices
      □ Why Some Asexuals Masturbate (And A Few Other Things They Want You To
        Know)
      □ A Gay Military Family Shares Their Journey To Fatherhood
      □ Man Claims Fitbit Unexpectedly Captured Exact Moment His Heart Broke
      □ Dr. Darcy Sterling: 5 Rules for LGBT Dating
      □ This Short Film Aims To Tell Queer Stories In New And Authentic Ways
      □ 
        Go to Gay Voices
    More in Gay Voices
      □ Transgender
      □ Bisexual
      □ Lesbian
      □ Gay Marriage
      □ Don't Ask, Don't Tell
      □ Voice to Voice
      □ Poll Position
    You might also like
      □ Black Voices
      □ Latino Voices
      □ Style
  • HUFFPOST LIVE
      □ Go to HuffPost Live
  • ALL SECTIONS
    News
      □ Politics
      □ WorldPost
      □ Business
      □ Media
      □ Sports
      □ Education
      □ Crime
      □ Weird News
      □ Good News
    Entertainment
      □ Entertainment
      □ Celebrity
      □ Comedy
      □ Arts & Culture
      □ Books
      □ TV
    Life & Style
      □ Healthy Living
      □ GPS for the Soul
      □ Style
      □ Home
      □ Taste
      □ Weddings
      □ Travel
      □ Parents
      □ Divorce
      □ Huff/Post 50
      □ OWN
      □ Dr. Phil
      □ Quiet Revolution
    Tech & Science
      □ Tech
      □ Science
      □ Green
    Voices
      □ Women
      □ Black Voices
      □ Latino Voices
      □ Gay Voices
      □ Religion
      □ College
      □ Teen
      □ Impact
    Local
      □ Chicago
      □ DC
      □ Denver
      □ Detroit
      □ Hawaii
      □ Los Angeles
      □ Miami
      □ New York
      □ San Francisco
    Our Mobile Apps
      □ iOS App
      □ HuffPost Live iOS
      □ Android App

Religion

  • Buddhism
  • Christianity
  • Hinduism
  • Islam
  • Judaism
  • Sikhism
  • Religion and Science
  • Interfaith
  • Scripture Commentary
  • Prayer and Meditation
  • Death

[                    ] [ ] Subscribe
rss of this page
 
Like
[S::S]
186
[trans]

Atheist Wins $2 Million Settlement Over Faith-Based Rehab Program

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (669)

[trans]

Do Atheists Have A Sexism Problem?

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (367)

[trans]

5 Religious Concepts That Atheists Can Use

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (751)

featured blog posts

Muslim Women and the Militant Atheists

GHENT HEADSCARF BAN

It seems it is not only the far right that seizes the opportunity of every
calamity that befalls us and every terrorist attack to unleash their
exclusionary and hateful rhetoric towards Islam and Muslims. Self-proclaimed
enlightened liberals do too.

 

Soumaya Ghannoushi

British Tunisian writer and Middle East expert

 
 

Purpose-Driven Life and Secularism

This article first appeared on the blog of Intentional Insights, a nonprofit
organization that empowers people to refine and reach their goals by ...

 

Gleb Tsipursky

Dr. Gleb Tsipursky runs a nonprofit that helps people reach their goals using
science, Intentional Insights, authored Find Your Purpose Using Science, and is
a tenure-track professor at Ohio State. Get in touch with him at
gleb@intentionalinsights.org.

Losing My Religion

When did this happen? When did I lose faith in the fundamental beliefs of
Christianity that I'd been raised to respect? What caused me to lean toward
atheism? Did I miss something in confirmation class?

 

Mandy Jackson-Beverly

Author of "A Secret Muse"

Why Atheists Value Religious Freedom Day

CHURCH

The idea and character of religious freedom has changed over the years, and
unfortunately the change has not always been for the better. But celebrations
like Religious Freedom Day can remind us of the full nature of religious
freedom.

 

Roy Speckhardt

Executive Director, American Humanist Association

What do Politics Have to do With Meaning and Purpose in Life?

You pass through the long security line at the United States Capitol building
in Washington, DC. While the line of tourists streams forward into the
Exhibition Hall, you turn right, and head to the Senate appointment desk.

 

Gleb Tsipursky

Dr. Gleb Tsipursky runs a nonprofit that helps people reach their goals using
science, Intentional Insights, authored Find Your Purpose Using Science, and is
a tenure-track professor at Ohio State. Get in touch with him at
gleb@intentionalinsights.org.

 

Meaning, Purpose, and Civic Engagement Beyond Belief

Whether you are a believer or secular, to gain a greater sense of purpose and
meaning in life it helps to participate in civic engagement with others from
your community.

 

Gleb Tsipursky

Dr. Gleb Tsipursky runs a nonprofit that helps people reach their goals using
science, Intentional Insights, authored Find Your Purpose Using Science, and is
a tenure-track professor at Ohio State. Get in touch with him at
gleb@intentionalinsights.org.

3 Reasons Why Religious Americans Should Warm Up to Atheists

RODIN

Atheists are generally good people. They are certainly not the demons that some
religious people have made them out to be. So why, then, do atheists tend to
receive the cold shoulder from their religious fellow Americans?

 

Ryan Stringer

Graduate student in philosophy at UC San Diego

The Sacred Ground of Humanism

EARTH

My sacred ground is all around us. My only holy site is the one we are all
standing on and, if we are not careful, it will be in ruins. It will be the
graveyard of all humanity.

 

Staks Rosch

Blogger, atheist, and Humanist

The Satirical World of Atheist Activism

Recently, Massachusetts resident Lindsay Miller won the right to wear a
colander in her State ID photo on account of her belief in Pastafarianism.
There are two ways of interpreting this.

 

Isaac Fornarola

Journalist, satirist and teacher covering identity politics and LGBTQ issues.
Based in New York City. Founder and editor of @FluxWeekly. Twitter: @isaacforn

Religious Liberty and the Neolithic Mindset of Justice Scalia

It's not enough for individual believers to worship God as they see fit -- a
right which I and most Americans are happy to acknowledge and protect.
According to Scalia, the government must place its thumb on the scale and
promote and advance religion over non-religion.

 

Ronald A. Lindsay

President & CEO, Center for Inquiry; Author of The Necessity of Secularism

In Defense of Faith

I recently read excerpts from a website authored by a person who mocks those
who are religious or spiritual. The writer repeated the familiar conde...

 

Elaine Ambrose

Author, syndicated blogger, featured humor speaker, publisher, and retreat
organizer knows that laughter - with wine - is the best medicine.

Floating in Dao: Zhuangzi's Tumultuous Tranquility

The world? It's something to deal with and find a place in and live your life
in, possibly to make a better place. Nature? It's something to study...

 

Brook Ziporyn

Professor of Chinese Philosophy, Religion and Comparative Thought, University
of Chicago

Will 2015 Be Remembered as the Breakout Year for Transhumanism?

Last year, I wrote that 2014 was a great year for the transhumanism movement.
But 2015 was simply incredible -- it might end up being called a breakout year.

 

Zoltan Istvan

US Presidential candidate of Transhumanist Party; Author of bestselling novel
'The Transhumanist Wager'

What Does It Mean to Be a Christian Atheist?

ATHEISM

I have never been completely comfortable as a progressive Christian. Yes, the
term helps somewhat to alleviate the sense people sometimes get that I'm some
kind of crazy, bible-thumping evangelical trying to convert them. "A
progressive Christian?" most of them ask. They've never heard of it.

 

Christian Chiakulas

Writer and musician from Chicago

For Christians, Does Being Pro-Life Lead More Souls to Hell?

From a strictly biblical point of view, being born on Earth is a test. All our
actions will eventually be judged by an omnipotent God who will determine
whether we go to heaven or hell. Our deeds, sinful or not, determine where we
spend eternity.

 

Zoltan Istvan

US Presidential candidate of Transhumanist Party; Author of bestselling novel
'The Transhumanist Wager'

Celebrating and Protecting Religious Pluralism

In the current state of the political and cultural world, one doesn't need to
look far to see religious pluralism done wrong. A candidate for presiden...

 

Rabbi Jack Moline

Executive Director, Interfaith Alliance

[trans]

Atheists Form Super Group, Name Woman To Top Leadership Role

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 01.21.2016

[trans]

Atheist Asks Marco Rubio Whether He's Running To Be 'Pastor-In-Chief'

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 01.20.2016

[trans]

Atheist Group Files Suit To Remove 'In God We Trust' From Currency

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (22) |
  • 01.18.2016

[trans]

Why This Group Of Atheists, Agnostics, And Seekers Loves Christmas

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 12.23.2015

[trans]

Ted Cruz: An Atheist 'Isn't Fit To Be' President

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (67) |
  • 11.09.2015

[trans]

U.K.'s Former Chief Rabbi Explains Why God Invented Atheists

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 10.14.2015

[trans]

Religion Scholar Boycotts Conference At Mormon University

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 10.09.2015

[trans]

There Is A Revolution Going On In Religion, And Faith Leaders Better Listen Up

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 10.01.2015

[trans]

Why One Atheist Wants To Hear The Pope Speak In Philly

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 09.29.2015

[trans]

Atheists Join Hindus, Vegans, Satanists In Asking For State Capitol Monument

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 09.04.2015

[trans]

Indian Scholar Who Criticized Superstition Is Murdered In His Home

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 08.31.2015

[trans]

The 30 Least Religious Cities In The United States

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 08.09.2015

[trans]

Toronto's Atheist Minister Faces Church Court After Questioning Christianity
For At Least 14 Years

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 08.13.2015

[trans]

Prominent Atheist Richard Dawkins Says Islam Needs A 'Feminist Revolution'

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 07.24.2015

[trans]

How The 'Nones' Can Find A Sense Of Community Outside Of Religion

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 07.22.2015

[trans]

Atheists Don't Exist, 'Duck Dynasty' Star Says

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (3,500) |
  • 07.07.2015

[trans]

Bangladeshi Atheist Relocates To U.S. After Death Threats

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (22) |
  • 06.04.2015

[trans]

Michigan Atheist Sets Up 'Reason Station' After Hard-Fought Lawsuit

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (425) |
  • 04.29.2015

[trans]

The United Church Of Bacon Accuses Wells Fargo Of Religious Discrimination

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (28) |
  • 04.24.2015

[trans]

Atheist Mom Gets Threats After School Cancels 'Bible Man' Visits

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (1,321) |
  • RELIGIÓN

[trans]

Blogger Deaths Highlight Dangers For Atheists Around The World

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (78) |
  • 04.04.2015

[trans]

Phil Robertson Reveals Bizarre Atheist Rape Fantasy

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (1,117) |
  • 03.25.2015

[trans]

Meet The Friendly Atheists Next Door

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (249) |
  • 03.23.2015

[trans]

A Rabbi And An Atheist Talk Good And Evil

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments |
  • 03.13.2015

[trans]

Why It Might Help Some Lawmakers To Focus On The Religiously Unaffiliated

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (11) |
  • 03.11.2015

[trans]

184-I-DOUBT-IT: Hotline Launches To Help Those Struggling Between Faith And
Atheism

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (83) |
  • 02.27.2015

[trans]

City Forced To Allow 'Reason Station' Alongside 'Prayer Station'

  • Quick Read |
  • Comments (137) |
  • 02.24.2015

Pages:  
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10


  • Advertise |
  • 
  • Make HuffPost your Home Page |
  • RSS |
  • Careers |
  • FAQ

  • User Agreement |
  • Privacy |
  • Comment Policy |
  • About Us |
  • About Our Ads |
  • Contact Us |
  • Archive

  • Copyright (C) 2016 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. |
  • "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com,
    Inc. All rights reserved.

  • Part of AOL Family


[p] Quantcast *
●
[huffpo_logo_lightbox]
 

[lo]
