Would you like to add or edit content here? Here's how you can have an account!


Main Page

From FreeThoughtPedia
Jump to: navigation, search

Question with boldness even the existence of a God; because, if there be one,
he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of blind-folded fear. -
Thomas Jefferson

Welcome to FreeThoughtPedia.com! Today is Saturday, January 23, 2016. We now
feature 2,484 pages, 693 articles and 1,134 files.

NOTICE: For the next few weeks, user registrations and page editing will be
temporarily disabled. We've had a large amount of spam-bots attempt to create
accounts and junk up the content so we'll be making some changes to fix this
and then un-locking user registration. If you want an account created in the
meantime, use the contact link to let us know. Thanks for your patience and
understanding!

FreeThoughtPedia.com was launched to provide a central repository for resources
 relating to debate and discussion on a wide variety of issues surrounding the
   critical thinking movement, including Religion, Atheism, Science, Debate
    Techniques and more. We even welcome theists here as long as you behave
 yourselves and don't vandalize our Wiki. Would you like to contribute to our
                               online resource?

[Concordat]
The Concordat between the Vatican and the Nazis, Cardinal Secretary of State,
Eugenio Pacelli (later to become Pope Pius XII) signs the Concordat between
Nazi Germany and the Vatican at a formal ceremony in Rome on 20 July 1933. Nazi
Vice-Chancellor Franz von Papen sits at the left, Pacelli in the middle, and
the Rudolf Buttmann sits at the right. The Concordat effectively legitimized
Hitler and the Nazi government to the eyes of Catholicism, Christianity, and
the world.

[81951391v9]

The idea here is to provide a place to link to which saves time in having to
repeat many common arguments or dispel false assumptions (for example, Is
Atheism a "belief"?)

New to all of this? Start with Why atheists care about religion and
Introduction To Religion.

Here are a few of the main areas we want to populate:

  • Theism - Definitions of Theism, including a list of different Religions and
    details on how different religions distinguish themselves from each other
  • Atheism - An introduction to Atheism
  • Common Theist Arguments - An overview of common arguments made by theists,
    with examples and debunking
  • Theological Criticisms - An overview of various arguments against theism in
    general and specific beliefs and scripture.
  • Priest Abuse - News items featuring abuses by clergy
  • Theists Gone Wild - Sometimes theists are so misguided it can be perceived
    as amusing, in a very sad sort of way. Here's a collection of videos.
  • Now Showing in the FTP Theatre: Judgement Day - Intelligent Design on Trial
  • Humor - The lighter side of irrationality.



  • Logical Fallacies - A listing of the various types of invalid arguments
    used in debate, with examples and explanations

[200px-Wtc-m]
●
Actual promotional flyer for the WTC in the 1980s. In a world without religion,
these two buildings would still be standing.

  • Scripture - FTP's overview of scripture and history, edited by historian,
    Rook Hawkins
  • Free Thought Resources - A listing of Freethought-Oriented Groups
  • Religious Apologists - Bold and aggressive theists who try to convince
    others
  • Freethought Imagery - Funny, provocative and thoughtful images to use here
    or elsewhere
  • Freethinkers - Our role call of notable online active freethinkers. Also
    see Famous atheists.
  • Deconversion Stories - Everyone has a story to tell about how they escaped
    from the bonds of ignorance & fear
  • Religion Humor - The joke's on religion
  • Vandals - If you deface the site, your IP address and information is
    permanently posted for all to reference later, and make no mistake, you're
    not anonymous online

[Ftp_cap]

  • Definitions - FreethoughtPedia Dictionary
  • Religious Debate - Debates between theists and atheists
  • Conversations - Are you a theist and want to comment? This is the page from
    which to do so.

FreeThoughtPedia is not looking to encroach into the area of Wikipedia. We want
to focus mostly on common arguments, apologetic debunking, illumination of
logical fallacies, interpretation and analysis of dogma & scripture, science as
it relates to critical thinking arguments, and as simplistic an overview as
possible on the various types of religion and world views currently in play.

Getting started

We welcome and encourage people to add and improve the content on
FreeThoughtPedia. Please take a look at our Editorial guidelines and if you're
new to Wiki, see How to create and edit pages.


This site costs a lot of money in bandwidth and resources. We are glad to bring
  it to you free, but would you consider helping support our site by making a
donation? Any amount would go a long way towards helping us continue to provide
                     this useful service to the community.

 Click on the Paypal button below to donate. Your support is most appreciated!

            Make payments with PayPal - it's fast, free and secure!

                        Who's reading FreethoughtPedia?
                                  ip-location

Retrieved from "http://www.freethoughtpedia.com/wiki/Main_Page"


This site costs a lot of money in bandwidth and resources. We are glad to bring
  it to you free, but would you consider helping support our site by making a
donation? Any amount would go a long way towards helping us continue to provide
                     this useful service to the community.

 Click on the Paypal button below to donate. Your support is most appreciated!

            Make payments with PayPal - it's fast, free and secure!            

Views

  • Page
  • Discussion
  • View source
  • History

Personal tools

  • Log in

 

MAIN MENU

  • Main Page
  • About FTP
  • Contact Us
  • SUPPORT US
  • Online Store!
  • Messageboard
  • New Pages
  • Current events
  • Recent changes
  • Random page
  • Help contribute!

FEATURED SECTIONS

  • Theist arguments
  • FT arguments
  • Our Free Podcast
  • Gallery
  • Today in God
  • Theist Gone Wild
  • Anti-Atheist Law
  • Freethought videos
  • Essential reading
  • Now Showing!

FreeThoughtPedia

  • Online Store
  • Freethought Reddit
  • Facebook Group (old)
  • Follow on Twitter

Partner Sites

  • BSAlert
  • FFRF.org

Indexes

  • People
  • Videos
  • Category Index

Search

[Go]  [Search]
Support Freethoughtpedia.com
            Make payments with PayPal - it's fast, free and secure!
Online Shop

[218379083v4_1]
[201501214v2_1]
[201504988v4_1]

Toolbox

  • What links here
  • Related changes
  • Special pages
  • Printable version
  • Permanent link

Powered by MediaWiki

  • This page was last modified on 14 August 2011, at 13:38.
  • Privacy policy
  • About FreeThoughtPedia
  • Disclaimers

