                        The Hodge & Braddock Home Page

     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[books02]


Greetings. I'm Ron Ecker, owner of Hodge & Braddock, Publishers. I'm not only
the sole proprietor but the sole employee.

So far I've only published four books, so you know I chose four that are
special. And not just because I wrote them. I'm talking college course
adoptions--three of the four titles--and a widely used reference work.

While you're here, let me tell you about them. You might want to buy one!





   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[ho]The Canterbury Tales

This is the only complete modern-English translation of Geoffrey Chaucer's
masterpiece in hard-copy print. And according to the review journal Choice, "It
is difficult to imagine anyone doing a better job." The translation, by me and
Chaucer scholar Eugene J. Crook, has been adopted so far in over 100 college
and university literature courses. (Not bad for a book no established publisher
wanted. Now I'm glad I had to start my own company.) You can learn more about 
The Canterbury Tales, read an excerpt, view the online edition, and/or order
the translation right now.


   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

           [adam]And Adam Knew Eve: A Dictionary of Sex in the Bible

Biblical sexuality, from the lovemaking of Adam and Eve to the book of
Revelation's depiction of imperial Rome as a harlot on a scarlet beast, is
given A to Z coverage in And Adam Knew Eve. Recommended by American Reference
Books Annual, this work includes index, bibliography, and fine-art
reproductions. You're invited to learn more about it, and browse through the
online edition. Then I'm sure you'll run clickety-split to buy And Adam Knew
Eve.


   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[dinosaur]The Evolutionary Tales

If you want to understand the creation/evolution debate, simply be entertained,
or both, read The Evolutionary Tales: Rhyme and Reason on Creation/Evolution,
with Apologies to Chaucer and Darwin. This light verse on origins is in the
form of a Chaucer parody. It's a serious work, though, that's been adopted in
courses at DePaul University, Miami of Ohio, and Arkansas-Monticello. So go
ahead, learn more about it, sample the online edition, or order the third
printed edition.


   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[dra]Night of the Dragon's Blood

This comic first novel by William Pridgen (aka Ron Ecker) features Eva Pero'n
and Adolf Hitler as vampires. Learn more about this off-the-wall thriller (and
why I didn't use my real name), adopted for the laughs in a course on Hitler at
Ithaca College. The book is now out of print, but you can enjoy online my
screenplay on which it was based.


     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━



Thanks for dropping by Hodge & Braddock!

To place a book order, or for details on the titles, see:


       And Adam Knew Eve | The Canterbury Tales | The Evolutionary Tales
                          Night of the Dragon's Blood


                               Have a nice day!
                                   Ron Ecker


                                   [feather]



                            The New Howell Theater



                                     [upa]



                                   Contact:
                           hobrad at outlook dot com



                                     fraud
                                     fraud


