Toggle navigation [nqlogo2]

  • Browse quotes by subject
      □ A
      □ B
      □ C
      □ D
      □ E
      □ F
      □ G
      □ H
      □ I
      □ J
      □ K
      □ L
      □ M
      □ N
      □ O
      □ P
      □ Q
      □ R
      □ S
      □ T
      □ U
      □ V
      □ W
      □ X
      □ Y
      □ Z
  • Browse quotes by author
      □ A
      □ B
      □ C
      □ D
      □ E
      □ F
      □ G
      □ H
      □ I
      □ J
      □ K
      □ L
      □ M
      □ N
      □ O
      □ P
      □ Q
      □ R
      □ S
      □ T
      □ U
      □ V
      □ W
      □ X
      □ Y
      □ Z

[                    ] 
Submit
  • 

[INS::INS]

ATHEISM QUOTES

quotations about atheism

  • <<
  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • >>

I am an atheist, out and out. It took me a long time to say it. I've been an
atheist for years and years, but somehow I felt it was intellectually
unrespectable to say one was an atheist, because it assumed knowledge that one
didn't have. Somehow, it was better to say one was a humanist or an agnostic. I
finally decided that I'm a creature of emotion as well as of reason.
Emotionally, I am an atheist. I don't have the evidence to prove that God
doesn't exist, but I so strongly suspect he doesn't that I don't want to waste
my time.

ISAAC ASIMOV, Free Inquiry, spring 1982

13 likes
like
Tags: Isaac Asimov

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

All thinking men are atheists.

ERNEST HEMINGWAY, A Farewell to Arms

12 likes
like
Tags: Ernest Hemingway, thinking

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

I would love to believe that when I die I will live again, that some thinking,
feeling, remembering part of me will continue. But as much as I want to believe
that, and despite the ancient and worldwide cultural traditions that assert an
afterlife, I know of nothing to suggest that it is more than wishful thinking.

CARL SAGAN, Billions & Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the
Millennium

11 likes
like
Tags: Carl Sagan, immortality

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The word god is for me nothing more than the expression and product of human
weaknesses, the Bible a collection of honourable, but still primitive legends
which are nevertheless pretty childish. No interpretation no matter how subtle
can (for me) change this.

ALBERT EINSTEIN, Gutkind Letter, Jan. 3, 1954

10 likes
like
Tags: Albert Einstein, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

It was, of course, a lie what you read about my religious convictions, a lie
which is being systematically repeated. I do not believe in a personal God and
I have never denied this but have expressed it clearly. If something is in me
which can be called religious then it is the unbounded admiration for the
structure of the world so far as our science can reveal it.

ALBERT EINSTEIN, attributed, Albert Einstein: The Human Side

10 likes
like
Tags: Albert Einstein, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

God was always invented to explain mystery. God is always invented to explain
those things that you do not understand. Now when you finally discover how
something works, you get some laws which you're taking away from God; you don't
need him anymore. But you need him for the other mysteries. So therefore you
leave him to create the universe because we haven't figured that out yet; you
need him for understanding those things which you don't believe the laws will
explain, such as consciousness, or why you only live to a certain length of
time -- life and death -- stuff like that. God is always associated with those
things that you do not understand.

RICHARD FEYNMAN, attributed, Superstrings: A Theory of Everything

10 likes
like
Tags: Richard Feynman, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Properly read, the Bible is the most potent force for atheism ever conceived.

ISAAC ASIMOV, Yours, Isaac Asimov: A Lifetime of Letters

9 likes
like
Tags: Isaac Asimov, Bible

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

All I say is that I think it is damned unlikely that anything like a central
cosmic will, a spirit world, or an eternal survival of personality exist. They
are the most preposterous and unjustified of all the guesses which can be made
about the universe, and I am not enough of a hair-splitter to pretend that I
don't regard them as arrant and negligible moonshine. In theory I am an
agnostic, but pending the appearance of radical evidence I must be classed,
practically and provisionally, as an atheist.

H. P. LOVECRAFT, letter to Robert E. Howard, Aug. 16, 1932

9 likes
like
Tags: H. P. Lovecraft, Robert E. Howard

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The most dangerous type of atheism is not theoretical atheism, but practical
atheism -- that's the most dangerous type. And the world, even the church, is
filled up with people who pay lip service to God and not life service. And
there is always a danger that we will make it appear externally that we believe
in God when internally we don't. We say with our mouths that we believe in him,
but we live with our lives like he never existed. That is the ever-present
danger confronting religion. That's a dangerous type of atheism.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., sermon delivered at Detroit's Second Baptist Church,
Feb. 28, 1954

8 likes
like
Tags: Martin Luther King, Jr.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

I believe that when I die I shall rot, and nothing of my ego will survive. I am
not young and I love life. But I should scorn to shiver with terror at the
thought of annihilation. Happiness is nonetheless true happiness because it
must come to an end, nor do thought and love lose their value because they are
not everlasting. Many a man has borne himself proudly on the scaffold; surely
the same pride should teach us to think truly about man's place in the world.
Even if the open windows of science at first make us shiver after the cosy
indoor warmth of traditional humanizing myths, in the end the fresh air brings
vigour, and the great spaces have a splendour of their own.

BERTRAND RUSSELL, "What I Believe"

8 likes
like
Tags: Bertrand Russell

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

We are all atheists about most of the gods that societies have ever believed
in. Some of us just go one god further.

RICHARD DAWKINS, attributed, The Root of All Evil

8 likes
like
Tags: Richard Dawkins, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

An atheist doesn't have to be someone who thinks he has a proof that there
can't be a god. He only has to be someone who believes that the evidence on the
God question is at a similar level to the evidence on the werewolf question.

JOHN MCCARTHY, "Agnostics and Atheists"

8 likes
like
Tags: John McCarthy

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

I'm an atheist, and that's it. I believe there's nothing we can know except
that we should be kind to each other and do what we can for other people.

KATHARINE HEPBURN, "Kate Talks Straight", Ladies Home Journal, Oct. 1, 1991

8 likes
like
Tags: Katharine Hepburn

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Religion has actually convinced people that there's an invisible man living in
the sky who watches everything you do, every minute of every day. And the
invisible man has a special list of ten things he does not want you to do. And
if you do any of these ten things, he has a special place, full of fire and
smoke and burning and torture and anguish, where he will send you to live and
suffer and burn and choke and scream and cry forever and ever 'til the end of
time!... But He loves you!

GEORGE CARLIN, "George Carlin on Religion"

8 likes
like
Tags: George Carlin, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The Old Testament is responsible for more atheism, agnosticism, disbelief --
call it what you will -- than any book ever written; it has emptied more
churches than all the counterattractions of cinema, motor bicycle and golf
course.

A.A. MILNE

7 likes
like
Tags: A. A. Milne

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Since ancient times, the philosophers' secret has always been this: we know
that God does not exist, or, at least, if he does, he's utterly indifferent to
our individual affairs--but we can't let the rabble know that; it's the fear of
God, the threat of divine punishment and the promise of divine reward, that
keeps in line those too unsophisticated to work out questions of morality on
their own.

ROBERT J. SAWYER, Calculating God

7 likes
like
Tags: Robert J. Sawyer, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

When men stop believing in God, it isn't that they then believe in nothing:
they believe in everything.

UMBERTO ECO, Foucault's Pendulum

7 likes
like
Tags: Umberto Eco, belief

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

If he is infinitely good, what reason should we have to fear him? If he is
infinitely wise, why should we have doubts concerning our future? If he knows
all, why warn him of our needs and fatigue him with our prayers? If he is
everywhere, why erect temples to him? If he is just, why fear that he will
punish the creatures that he has filled with weaknesses? If grace does
everything for them, what reason would he have for recompensing them? If he is
all-powerful, how offend him, how resist him? If he is reasonable, how can he
be angry at the blind, to whom he has given the liberty of being unreasonable?
If he is immovable, by what right do we pretend to make him change his decrees?
If he is inconceivable, why occupy ourselves with him? If he has spoken, why is
the universe not convinced? If the knowledge of a God is the most necessary,
why is it not the most evident and the clearest?

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY, The Necessity of Atheism

7 likes
like
Tags: Percy Bysshe Shelley, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Consider the long history of the activities inspired by moral fervour: human
sacrifices, persecutions of heretics, witch-hunts, pogroms leading up to
wholesale extermination by poison gases ... Are these abominations, and the
ethical doctrines by which they are prompted, really evidence of an intelligent
Creator? And can we really wish that the men who practised them should live for
ever? The world in which we live can be understood as a result of muddle and
accident; but if it is the outcome of a deliberate purpose, the purpose must
have been that of a fiend. For my part, I find accident a less painful and more
plausible hypothesis.

BERTRAND RUSSELL, Do We Survive Death?

7 likes
like
Tags: Bertrand Russell

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Is man merely a mistake of God's? Or God merely a mistake of man?

FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, Twilight of the Idols

7 likes
like
Tags: Friedrich Nietzsche, God

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • <<
  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • >>



[INS::INS]

Copyright (C) 2005 - 2016 Notable Quotes. All rights reserved. Browse by
subject Browse by author


[INS::INS]
