Jump to navigation

[ ] x

  • Columns►[ ]
      □ Columns ◀
      □ Virginia
      □ Ken
      □ God
  • Books in Progress►[ ]
      □ Books in Progress ◀
      □ Into the Canyon
      □ The Book of the Story
      □ The Guardian Dolphin
  • About►[ ]
      □ About ◀
      □ Credits
      □ Privacy Policy
  • log in

≡
Home Home
[FuzzyHeade]

Main menu

Welcome

mull (mŭl) verb, transitive

 1. To ponder, meditate, be attentive.
 2. To heat up and spice.

[                    ] [Search]
 

Holiday Hustle

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2015/12/15 - 12:27pm

Some people finish their holiday shopping in August, or even on December 26 for
the next year! It works well for them. It would not work well for me because I
have to confess that I love the hustle and bustle of the holiday season, and
yes, even the chaos.  

I don't mind the last-minute wrapping, or even the hunt for that present I know
I bought but can't find because I put it somewhere "safe."

medium_P1150276_1.JPG

 

  • Read more about Holiday Hustle
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

When Everything Old is New Again

Virginia Watts - Sun, 2015/11/08 - 4:43pm

If you research the phrase "old chestnut" you will see that there is a literary
explanation that an "old chestnut" is a tale that has been told so many times
that it is no longer funny or interesting. If you research how long chestnuts
stay fresh, you will find that they must be stored under very precise
temperatures, and even then will not keep long. medium_P1150110.JPG

  • Read more about When Everything Old is New Again
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Organized Space

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2015/08/25 - 11:17pm

Sometimes I feel like climbing into my linen closet and curling up by the
ironed pillow cases and the bar of scented soap. It is probably the only place
in all of my living spaces that is, at the moment, quiet and serene.

  • Read more about Organized Space
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

In a New Light

Virginia Watts - Thu, 2015/07/09 - 6:49pm

P1140527.JPG 

  • Read more about In a New Light
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

New Perspectives

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2015/06/23 - 1:20pm

Today I have been trying to capture our one-hundred-plus-year-old tree with my
two-year-old camera. I can't do it. And I realize as I try one angle and
another, one frame and another, it isn't the camera's fault.

The tree was here long before we were here, long before this house was built,
and there are so many dreams and hopes caught in its branches and feeding those
green, green leaves, that no one lens, no matter how technologically adept, can
catch it.

  • Read more about New Perspectives
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Mutability and Constancy

Virginia Watts - Sun, 2015/06/07 - 5:24pm

It's February 1973 and we have been in our new-old house in the San Fernando
Valley for two and a half months. I don't know it yet, but I am pregnant with
our first child. I am a transplant from the Westside of Los Angeles, and the
valley is a little rural, a little unfamiliar compared to the more cosmopolitan
(if you could call it that in 1973) Westwood, Hollywood, and Santa Monica of my
previous world. 

I still work at UCLA, so every weekday I make a roundtrip over the Sepulveda
pass or the 405 freeway.

  • Read more about Mutability and Constancy
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Still Life

Virginia Watts - Mon, 2015/05/18 - 7:13pm

Whenever I see old family photographs, they often look as if the whole gestalt
of that moment were peaceful, tranquil. If by some magic you could go back
there now, maybe you could wander out of the frame and enjoy the picnic, the
party, the holiday, that was the occasion for the photo. People seem to be
enjoying themselves because after all they are all smiling, right? You don't
get what went on before the moment caught on film, or after. All you have is a
person with a smile, or maybe a funny face. 

  • Read more about Still Life
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Catch Me if I Fall

Virginia Watts - Sat, 2015/05/02 - 4:10pm

I recently took a road trip to Sacramento, driving alone up the I-5. This is a
trip I made many, many times when I was working, and although the I-5 has never
been known as a picturesque drive, I always loved it. The California landscape
is never boring to me. The mountains are lovely, even sensuous with their
undulating contours and changing colors. medium_008.JPG Wild radish and
mustard, lush California lilacs, line the roadside.

  • Read more about Catch Me if I Fall
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Spring Cleaning

Virginia Watts - Sat, 2015/04/04 - 1:47pm

Cleaning up a fairy garden means that first you have to find all the fairies
and give them a bath. Then it may be necessary to refresh a little paint here
and there, no matter how hard they try to resist. And if they have left their
Winter Solstice decorations up, you must retrieve those, clean them up, and
find safe storage so that they can be used again during the appropriate season.
There is always a question of how the furnishings have been rearranged, as
well.

  • Read more about Spring Cleaning
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Steady as She Goes

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2015/03/10 - 5:10pm

This picture breaks my heart. Young girl with doll, washing hanging on
clothesline

  • Read more about Steady as She Goes
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Now Hear This

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2015/02/17 - 4:57pm

Government business in government buildings grinds slow, inching along while
endless conversations and copy machines murmur and people are restless in
folding chairs, on dirty seats stained with coffee or soda or maybe even body
fluids. Rehearsing what you will say, not paying much attention except to track
your turn, you wait. If you want to be heard, you wait.

  • Read more about Now Hear This
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • 1 comment
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Journey 1991

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2015/01/20 - 1:29pm

small_February%202010b%20045.jpg  

There is a particular longing, ever-present, and unnamed 

permeating into areas ordinarily inaccessible if circumscribed by specifics.

How, then, can it be a particular longing?

But it is something -- something unclaimed, wandering loose, or sitting
forlornly, like lost luggage.

  • Read more about Journey 1991
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • 2 comments
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Driving North, 1959

Virginia Watts - Sat, 2015/01/10 - 12:34pm

Driving North, 1959

small_Cambria%202004%20010_0.jpg

  • Read more about Driving North, 1959
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

Dreaming Christmas

Virginia Watts - Tue, 2014/12/16 - 12:32pm

What is your Christmas dream? Every year I start spinning holiday fantasies
long before Thanksgiving. I find myself rummaging around in early Christmas
memories and building a chain that links to the present.  
small_P1130685%20-%20Copy.JPG

  • Read more about Dreaming Christmas
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • 1 comment
  • Log in or register to post comments

 

More than I Knew About Myself -- and Less

Virginia Watts - Thu, 2014/10/30 - 1:30pm

The things we are told about ourselves and our family history shape who we are.
 Slide06%20Virginia%202%20years%20old_1.J

  • Read more about More than I Knew About Myself -- and Less
  • Facebook logo
  • LinkedIn logo
  • Reddit logo
  • StumbleUpon logo
  • Twitter logo
  • Yahoo logo
  • Virginia Watts
  • Log in or register to post comments

Pages

  • 1
  • 2
  • 3
  • 4
  • 5
  • 6
  • 7
  • 8
  • 9
  • …
  • next ›
  • last »

Subscribe to RSS - blogs

Enter your email address:

[                    ]

[Subscribe]

Delivered by FeedBurner

[LetThereBeLightsGreeti]
Winter Solstice Greeting Cards
[Small-t_Party][Small-t_Party]

"Small-t Party" Mug

Recent comments

  • Simply want to say your 1 week 4 days ago
  • Simply want to say your 1 week 5 days ago
  • Essay writing develops both 3 weeks 6 days ago
  • It is always important to 1 month 2 days ago
  • 1) I'm sure you can find many 3 months 1 week ago
  • 1) The Bible does not 3 months 1 week ago
  • See my response to the above 3 months 1 week ago
  • Maranatha: I am "up to date" 3 months 1 week ago
  • I've already commented on 3 months 1 week ago
  • So based on your logic, the 3 months 1 week ago

[SGSR_tile_bw_script]

Framed Tile for Front Door Solicitors

Powered by Drupal

Copyright © 2006-2016 Ken and Virginia Watts.
All rights reserved.
Credits | Email Ken | Submissions | Permissions | Privacy

Performancing Metrics

