[t]

 

he Evil Atheist Conspiracy (EAC) started as a joke on the *.atheism Usenet
newsgroups when fundies accused us of conspiring to take over the world. They
would talk about how we were supposedly trying to persecute them by forcing our
godless ideologies (ie. evolution and Secular Humanism) on good God-Fearing
fundies and the like.

Now we've arrived on the web. Come join us and become a member. What do you
have to do, you ask? Well, membership is easy. All you need is a web page and
the willingness to put one of the EAC logos on it with a link back to this
page, then fill out the EAC Membership form so that I can add you to the The
List of Fellow Conspirators. Other than that, there is nothing more you need to
do, ever. Yes it's absolutely free!

Take a look at all of the products you get by becoming a member. It's fast,
it's easy and it shows the fundies that you're not fooling around. Join EAC
today and live it up! Detailed instructions are on the EAC Membership Form and
the EAC Logos pages. If you need further help, contact Enlightened Despot. You
can find me by contacting your local conspiracy office and asking for Black
Helicopter Squadron Gamma. I'll be operating Mind control device number 3.

Things to buy:

Check out http://www.yakresearch.com/eac.html for some EAC Stickers.

Look at: http://www.cafepress.com/nogods for a nice parody of a Chick-Fil-A
advertisement featuring quasi-litterate cows holding signs begging people to
"Eat Mor Chikin".  BTW, this is especially funny when you consider
Chick-Fil-A's rather fundy leanings, as evidenced in the second paragraph of
their Corporate info page and on the profile of S. Truett Cathy, it's Founder
and Chairman.

Or maybe you'd like a "Smile there is no HELL" T-Shirt...  got to: http://
www.k-state.edu/freethought/shirtframe.html.

(I don't work with or for any of these guys, I just think the stuff is cool.)

                                  [ftr-link]
                       Click here to go to the  world's
                        first commercial Internet radio
                          station  providing quality
                        entertainment for non-theists,
                      agnostics, humanists,  naturalists,
                          and ALL other freethinkers!

                                        

                                [infidelbanner]
                         www.infidelguy.com - The best
                      internet atheist radio show online

                                        

                                  [anwhtbkg]
                      www.atheistnetwork.com - The Number
                       one atheist radio network in the
                      world. Hosting over 15 broadcasters
                                 and growing.

                                        

                                   [hmtna3]

                     ┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
                     ┃   This Evil Atheist Conspiracy    ┃
                     ┃   WebRing Site Administered By    ┃
                     ┃                                   ┃
                     ┃        Enlightened Despot         ┃
                     ┃                                   ┃
                     ┃             [rdeyes]              ┃
                     ┃                                   ┃
                     ┃Previous 5 Sites | Previous | Next ┃
                     ┃ Next 5 Sites | Random Site | List ┃
                     ┃               Sites               ┃
                     ┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

                                        

                  This page was last updated on 04/28/2008 .

 
                                  [divider1]

 Pages and images copyright © 2001, All rights reserved. Certain names, logos,
     designs, titles, music, words or phrases on this page may constitute
    trademarks, servicemarks, or tradenames of other entities which may be
  registered in certain jurisdictions and are copyright © by their respective
                                   holders.

