Christopher Hitchens

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: navigation, search

                             Christopher Hitchens
Hitchens photographed from profile
Hitchens speaking at the 2007 Amaz!ng Meeting at the Riviera Hotel, Las Vegas
                           Christopher Eric Hitchens
           Born            (1949-04-13)13 April 1949
                           Portsmouth, Hampshire, England, United Kingdom
           Died            15 December 2011(2011-12-15) (aged 62)
                           Houston, Texas, United States
      Cause of death       Pneumonia (brought on by esophageal cancer)
       Nationality         British (1949–2011)
                           American (2007–2011)
        Alma mater         The Leys School
                           Balliol College, Oxford
                             • Eleni Meleagrou
                               (m. 1981–89; divorced)
        Spouse(s)            • Carol Blue
                               (m. 1991–2011; his death)^[1]

                             • Lannan Literary Award for Nonfiction (1991)
                             • National Magazine Award for Columns (2007, 2011)
                             • Richard Dawkins Award (2011)
          Awards             • LennonOno Grant For Peace (2012)
                             • The Orwell Prize – Special Prize (2012)
                             • PEN/Diamonstein-Spielvogel Award
                               for the Art of the Essay (2012)

Influences

  • George Orwell,^[2] Leszek Kolakowski, Voltaire, Spinoza, Thomas Paine,
    Thomas Jefferson, George Eliot, Che Guevara, Karl Marx, Leon Trotsky, Rosa
    Luxemburg, John Stuart Mill, Joseph Heller, Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett
    , Sam Harris, Noam Chomsky, Gore Vidal, Edward Said, Salman Rushdie,
    Vladimir Nabokov, Richard Llewellyn, Aldous Huxley, PG Wodehouse, Evelyn
    Waugh, Richard Hofstadter, Paul Mark Scott, James Joyce, Albert Camus,
    Oscar Wilde, Conor Cruise O'Brien, Martin Amis, Kingsley Amis, James Fenton
    , Jessica Mitford, Ian McEwan, Colm Tóibín, Bertrand Russell, Wilfred Owen,
    Israel Shahak,^[3] Isaiah Berlin, W. H. Auden, Susan Sontag^[4]

Influenced

  • Johann Hari,^[5] Martin Amis,^[6] Douglas Murray, Sam Harris, Richard
    Dawkins, James Fenton

                                   Signature
Christopher Hitchens signature.svg

Christopher Eric Hitchens (13 April 1949 – 15 December 2011) was an English
author, essayist, orator, religious and literary critic, and journalist.
Hitchens later spent much of his career in the United States and became an
American citizen in 2007.^[7]^[8]

He contributed to New Statesman, The Nation, The Atlantic, London Review of
Books, The Times Literary Supplement, Slate, and Vanity Fair. Hitchens was the
author, co-author, editor or co-editor of over 30 books, including five
collections of essays, on a range of subjects, including politics, literature,
and religion. A staple of talk shows and lecture circuits, his confrontational
style of debate made him both a lauded and controversial figure. Known for his
contrarian stance on a number of issues, Hitchens criticized such public and
generally popular figures as Mother Teresa; Bill Clinton; Henry Kissinger;
Diana, Princess of Wales; and Pope Benedict XVI. He was the elder brother of
the conservative journalist and author Peter Hitchens.

Having long described himself as a socialist and a Marxist, Hitchens began his
break from the established political left after what he called the "tepid
reaction" of the Western left to the controversy over The Satanic Verses,
followed by the left's embrace of Bill Clinton, and the antiwar movement's
opposition to intervention in Bosnia-Herzegovina. However, Hitchens did not
leave his position writing for The Nation until post-9/11, stating that he felt
the magazine had arrived at a position "that John Ashcroft is a greater menace
than Osama bin Laden."^[9] The September 11 attacks "exhilarated" him, bringing
into focus "a battle between everything I love and everything I hate" and
strengthening his embrace of an interventionist foreign policy that challenged
"fascism with an Islamic face."^[10] His numerous editorials in support of the
Iraq War caused some to label him a neoconservative, although Hitchens insisted
he was not "a conservative of any kind," and his friend Ian McEwan described
him as representing the anti-totalitarian left.^[11] Hitchens recalls in his
memoir having been "invited by Bernard-Henri Levy to write an essay on
political reconsiderations for his magazine La Regle du Jeu. I gave it the
partly ironic title: 'Can One Be a Neoconservative?' Impatient with this, some
copy editor put it on the cover as 'How I Became a Neoconservative.' Perhaps
this was an instance of the Cartesian principle as opposed to the English
empiricist one: It was decided that I evidently was what I apparently only
thought."^[12] Indeed, in a 2010 BBC interview, he stated that he considered
himself still "a leftist" and "still think[s] like a Marxist".^[13]

A noted critic of religion and an antitheist, he said that a person "could be
an atheist and wish that belief in God were correct," but that "an antitheist,
a term I'm trying to get into circulation, is someone who is relieved that
there's no evidence for such an assertion."^[14] According to Hitchens, the
concept of a god or a supreme being is a totalitarian belief that destroys
individual freedom, and that free expression and scientific discovery should
replace religion as a means of teaching ethics and defining human civilisation.
Hitchens authored God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything, which was
a New York Times bestseller.

Hitchens died on 15 December 2011 from complications arising from esophageal
cancer, a disease that he acknowledged was more than likely to have been due to
his lifelong predilection for heavy smoking and drinking.^[15]

Contents

  • 1 Life and career
      □ 1.1 Early life and education
      □ 1.2 Journalistic career (1970–81)
      □ 1.3 American career (1981–2011)
      □ 1.4 Literature reviews
  • 2 Political views
      □ 2.1 Ideology
      □ 2.2 Iraq War and the war on terror
      □ 2.3 Criticism of George W. Bush
      □ 2.4 Presidential endorsements
      □ 2.5 Israel–Palestine
      □ 2.6 Domestic policy
      □ 2.7 Other
      □ 2.8 Criticism of Mormonism
  • 3 Critiques of specific individuals
  • 4 Views on religion
      □ 4.1 Hitchens's razor
  • 5 Personal life
      □ 5.1 Marriages and children
      □ 5.2 Parents
      □ 5.3 Relationship with his younger brother
      □ 5.4 Smoking and drinking
  • 6 Final illness and death
  • 7 Reactions to Hitchens's death
  • 8 Film and television appearances
  • 9 Books
  • 10 References
  • 11 External links

Life and career[edit]

Early life and education[edit]

Hitchens was born in Portsmouth, Hampshire, the elder of two boys.^[16]^[17]
His parents, Eric Ernest Hitchens (1909–87) and Yvonne Jean Hitchens (née
Hickman; 1921–73), met in Scotland when both were serving in the Royal Navy
during World War II.^[18] His mother was born Jewish, and kept that fact a
secret.^[19] It was not until late 1987 that Hitchens learned of his Jewish
ancestry.^[19]^[20] He said, "My initial reaction, apart from pleasure and
interest, was the faint but definite feeling that I had somehow known all
along."^[20] A 2002 article in The Guardian reported that he insisted that he
was Jewish because Jewish descent is traditionally traced matrilineally.^[21]
His mother was a "Wren" (a member of the Women's Royal Naval Service),^[22] and
his father an officer aboard the cruiser HMS Jamaica, which helped sink Nazi
Germany's battleship Scharnhorst in the Battle of the North Cape.^[4] His
father's naval career required the family to move a number of times from base
to base throughout Britain and its dependencies, including in Malta, where
Christopher's brother Peter was born in Sliema in 1951.^[23]

Hitchens's mother, arguing "if there is going to be an upper class in this
country, then Christopher is going to be in it",^[24] sent him to Mount House
School in Tavistock in Devon at the age of eight, followed by the independent
Leys School in Cambridge. Hitchens then went up to Balliol College, Oxford,
where he was tutored by Steven Lukes and Anthony Kenny and read Philosophy,
Politics and Economics. Hitchens was "bowled over" in his adolescence by
Richard Llewellyn's How Green Was My Valley, Arthur Koestler's Darkness at Noon
, Fyodor Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment, R. H. Tawney's critique on
Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, and the works of George Orwell.^[22] In
1968, he took part in the TV quiz show University Challenge.^[25]

In the 1960s, Hitchens joined the political left, drawn by his anger over the
Vietnam War, nuclear weapons, racism, and oligarchy, including that of "the
unaccountable corporation". He expressed affinity with the politically charged
countercultural and protest movements of the 1960s and 1970s. He deplored the
recreational drug use of the time, which he described as hedonistic.^[26]

Hitchens was bisexual during his younger days – until he claimed his looks
"declined to the point where only women would go to bed with me."^[27] He
claimed to have had sexual relations with two male students at Oxford who would
later become Tory ministers during the premiership of Margaret Thatcher,
although he would not reveal their names publicly.^[28]

He joined the Labour Party in 1965, but along with the majority of the Labour
students' organisation was expelled in 1967, because of what Hitchens called
"Prime Minister Harold Wilson's contemptible support for the war in Vietnam".^[
29] Under the influence of Peter Sedgwick, who translated the writings of
Russian revolutionary and Soviet dissident Victor Serge, Hitchens forged an
ideological interest in Trotskyist and anti-Stalinist socialism.^[22] Shortly
after he joined "a small but growing post-Trotskyist Luxemburgist sect".^[30]
He was first inspired to become a journalist after reading a piece by James
Cameron.^[31]

Journalistic career (1970–81)[edit]

Hitchens began working as a correspondent for the magazine International
Socialism,^[32] published by the International Socialists, the forerunners of
today's British Socialist Workers Party. This group was broadly Trotskyist, but
differed from more orthodox Trotskyist groups in its refusal to defend
communist states as "workers' states". Their slogan was "Neither Washington nor
Moscow but International Socialism".

Hitchens left Oxford with a third class degree.^[33] In 1971 he went to work at
the Times Higher Education Supplement where he served as a social science
correspondent.^[7] Hitchens admitted that he hated the position, and was fired
after six months in the job: he recalled, "I sometimes think if I'd been any
good at that job, I might still be doing it."^[34] Next he was a researcher for
ITV's Weekend World.^[35] In 1973 he went to work for the New Statesman, where
his colleagues included the authors Martin Amis, whom he had briefly met at
Oxford, Julian Barnes and James Fenton, with whom he had shared a house in
Oxford.^[35] It was at this time that the legendary Friday lunches began, which
were attended by writers including Clive James, Ian McEwan, Kingsley Amis,
Terence Kilmartin, Robert Conquest, Al Alvarez, Peter Porter, Russell Davies
and Mark Boxer. At the New Statesman Hitchens acquired a reputation as a fierce
left-winger, aggressively attacking targets such as Henry Kissinger, the
Vietnam War, and the Roman Catholic Church.

In November 1973, Hitchens's mother committed suicide in Athens in a suicide
pact with her lover, a defrocked clergyman named Timothy Bryan.^[22] The pair
overdosed on sleeping pills in adjoining hotel rooms, and Bryan slashed his
wrists in the bathtub. Hitchens flew alone to Athens to recover his mother's
body, initially under the impression that his mother had been murdered. Both
her children were then independent adults. While in Greece, Hitchens reported
on the constitutional crisis of the military junta. It became his first leading
article for the New Statesman.^[36]

In December 1977, Hitchens interviewed Argentine dictator Jorge Rafael Videla,
a conversation he later described as "horrifying".^[37]

In 1977, unhappy at the New Statesman, Hitchens defected to the Daily Express
where he became a foreign correspondent. He returned to the New Statesman in
1979 where he became foreign editor.^[35]

American career (1981–2011)[edit]

Hitchens went to the United States in 1981, as part of an editor exchange
program between The New Statesman and The Nation.^[38] After joining The Nation
, he penned vociferous critiques of Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush and
American foreign policy in South and Central America.^[39]^[40]^[41]^[42]^[43]^
[44]^[45] He became a contributing editor of Vanity Fair in 1992,^[46] writing
ten columns a year. He left The Nation in 2002 after profoundly disagreeing
with other contributors over the Iraq War. There is speculation that Hitchens
was the inspiration for Tom Wolfe's character Peter Fallow in the 1987 novel
The Bonfire of the Vanities,^[41] but others—including Hitchens (or he
indicated as such while alive)—believe it to be Spy Magazine '​s "Ironman
Nightlife Decathlete" Anthony Haden-Guest.^[47]^[48] In 1987, his father died
from cancer of the esophagus; the same disease that would later claim his own
life.^[49] In April 2007, Hitchens became a U.S. citizen. He became a media
fellow at the Hoover Institution in September 2008.^[50]

Hitchens spent part of his early career in journalism as a foreign
correspondent in Cyprus.^[51] Through his work there he met his first wife
Eleni Meleagrou, a Greek Cypriot, with whom he had two children, Alexander and
Sophia. His son, Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, born in 1984, has worked as a
policy researcher in London. Hitchens continued writing essay-style
correspondence pieces from a variety of locales, including Chad, Uganda^[52]
and the Darfur region of Sudan.^[53] His work took him to over 60 countries.^[
54] In 1991 he received a Lannan Literary Award for Nonfiction.^[55]

Hitchens met Carol Blue for the first time at Los Angeles airport in 1989 and
married her in 1991. Hitchens called it love at first sight.^[56] In 1999, as
harsh critics of Clinton, Hitchens and Carol Blue submitted an affidavit to the
trial managers of the Republican Party in the impeachment of Bill Clinton.
Therein they swore that their then-friend, Sidney Blumenthal, had described
Monica Lewinsky as a stalker. This allegation contradicted Blumenthal's own
sworn deposition in the trial,^[57] and it resulted in a hostile exchange of
opinion in the public sphere between Hitchens and Blumenthal. Following the
publication of Blumenthal's The Clinton Wars, Hitchens wrote several pieces in
which he accused Blumenthal of manipulating the facts.^[57]^[58] The incident
ended their friendship and sparked a "personal crisis" for Hitchens who was
stridently criticised by friends for a cynical and ultimately politically
futile act.^[40]

Before Hitchens's political shift, the American author and polemicist Gore
Vidal was apt to speak of Hitchens as his "dauphin" or "heir".^[59]^[60]^[61]
In 2010, Hitchens attacked Vidal in a Vanity Fair piece headlined "Vidal Loco",
calling him a "crackpot" for his adoption of 9/11 conspiracy theories.^[62]^[63
] On the back of Hitchens's memoir Hitch-22, among the praise from notable
figures, Vidal's endorsement of Hitchens as his successor is crossed out in red
and annotated "NO, C.H." His strong advocacy of the war in Iraq had gained
Hitchens a wider readership, and in September 2005 he was named one of the "Top
100 Public Intellectuals" by Foreign Policy and Prospect magazines.^[64] An
online poll ranked the 100 intellectuals, but the magazines noted that the
rankings of Hitchens (5), Noam Chomsky (1), and Abdolkarim Soroush (15) were
partly due to supporters publicising the vote.^[65]

In 2007 Hitchens's work for Vanity Fair won him the National Magazine Award in
the category "Columns and Commentary".^[66] He was a finalist once more in the
same category in 2008 for some of his columns in Slate but lost out to Matt
Taibbi of Rolling Stone.^[67] He won the National Magazine Award for Columns
about Cancer in 2011.^[68]^[69] Hitchens also served on the Advisory Board of
Secular Coalition for America and offered advice to Coalition on the acceptance
and inclusion of nontheism in American life.^[70] In December 2011, prior to
his death, Asteroid 57901 Hitchens was named after him.^[71]

Literature reviews[edit]

Hitchens wrote a monthly essay in The Atlantic^[72] about books and contributed
occasionally to other literary journals. One of his own books, Unacknowledged
Legislation: Writers in the Public Sphere, is a collection of such works, and
Love, Poverty and War contains a section devoted to literary essays. In Why
Orwell Matters, he defends Orwell's writings against modern critics as relevant
today and progressive for his time. In the 2008 book Christopher Hitchens and
His Critics: Terror, Iraq, and the Left, many literary critiques are included
of essays and other books of writers, such as David Horowitz and Edward Said.

During a three-hour In Depth interview on Book TV,^[4] he named authors who
have had influence on his views, including Aldous Huxley, George Orwell, Evelyn
Waugh, P. G. Wodehouse and Conor Cruise O'Brien.

Political views[edit]

Main article: Political views of Christopher Hitchens

My own opinion is enough for me, and I claim the right to have it defended
against any consensus, any majority, anywhere, anyplace, anytime. And anyone
who disagrees with this can pick a number, get in line and kiss my arse.

– Christopher Hitchens^[73]

The San Francisco Chronicle referred to Hitchens as a "gadfly with gusto".^[74]
In 2009, Hitchens was listed by Forbes magazine as one of the "25 most
influential liberals in the U.S. media".^[75] The same article noted, however,
that he would "likely be aghast to find himself on this list", as it reduces
his self-styled radicalism to mere liberalism. Hitchens's political
perspectives appear more notably in his wide-ranging writings, which include
many dialogues.

In 2010, Theodore Dalrymple wrote, "Christopher made an early commitment to
Trotskyism, but it is difficult to take him very seriously as a revolutionary
because he always has been too much of a hedonist. Indeed, he appears to me to
have had roughly the same relationship to proletarians as Marie Antoinette had
to sheep: They have walk-on parts in his personal drama. There is not much
evidence of his having thought deeply, or even at all, about the fate, under a
social system he vociferously advocated, of the pleasures he so clearly values,
the liking for which I don't in the least blame him; nor is there evidence of
any real reflection on what the world would have been like had his demands been
met. Not permanent revolution but permanent adolescence has been his goal, and
I think he has achieved it."^[76]

Ideology[edit]

Hitchens became a socialist "largely [as] the outcome of a study of history,
taking sides ... in the battles over industrialism and war and empire." In
2001, he told Rhys Southan of Reason magazine that he could no longer
truthfully call himself a socialist. Socialists, he claimed, had ceased to
offer a positive alternative to the capitalist system. Capitalism had become
the more revolutionary economic system, and he welcomed globalisation as
"innovative and internationalist", but added, "I don't think that the
contradictions, as we used to say, of the system, are by any means all
resolved." He stated that he had a renewed interest in the freedom of the
individual from the state, but that he still considered libertarianism to be
"ahistorical," both on a global scale and in the work of creating a stable and
functional society, adding that libertarians are "more worried about the
over-mighty state than the unaccountable corporation" whereas "the present
state of affairs ... combines the worst of bureaucracy with the worst of the
insurance companies."^[41]

In 2006, in a town hall meeting in Pennsylvania debating the Jewish Tradition
with Martin Amis, Hitchens commented on his political philosophy by stating, "I
am no longer a socialist, but I still am a Marxist".^[77] In a June 2010
interview with The New York Times, he stated that "I still think like a Marxist
in many ways. I think the materialist conception of history is valid. I
consider myself a very conservative Marxist".^[78] In 2009, in an article for
The Atlantic entitled "The Revenge of Karl Marx", Hitchens frames the
late-2000s recession in terms of Marx's economic analysis and notes how much
Marx admired the capitalist system that he called for the end of, but says that
Marx ultimately failed to grasp how revolutionary capitalist innovation was.^[
79] Hitchens was an admirer of Che Guevara, yet distanced himself from the
figure in a 1997 essay, and referred to the mythos surrounding Guevara as a
"cult".^[80] In 2004 he resumed his positive view of Che, commenting that "
[Che's] death meant a lot to me and countless like me at the time. He was a
role model, albeit an impossible one for us bourgeois romantics insofar as he
went and did what revolutionaries were meant to do—fought and died for his
beliefs."^[81]

He continued to regard Leon Trotsky and Vladimir Lenin as great men,^[82]^[83]
and the October Revolution as a necessary event in the modernisation of Russia.
^[30]^[41] In 2005, Hitchens praised Lenin's creation of "secular Russia" and
his discrediting of the Russian Orthodox Church, describing the church's power
as "absolute warren of backwardness and evil and superstition".^[30]

According to Andrew Sullivan, his last words were "Capitalism, downfall."^[84]

Iraq War and the war on terror[edit]

In the years after the fatwa issued against Salman Rushdie in response to his
novel The Satanic Verses, Hitchens became increasingly critical of what he
called "excuse making" on the left. At the same time, he was attracted to the
foreign policy ideas of some on the Republican-right that promoted
pro-liberalism intervention, especially the neoconservative group that included
Paul Wolfowitz.^[85] Around this time, he befriended the Iraqi dissident and
businessman Ahmed Chalabi.^[86] In 2004, Hitchens stated that neoconservative
support for US intervention in Iraq convinced him that he was "on the same side
as the neo-conservatives" when it came to contemporary foreign policy issues.^[
87] Hitchens had also been known to refer to his association with "temporary
neocon allies".^[88]

Following 11 September attacks, Hitchens and Noam Chomsky debated the nature of
radical Islam and the proper response to it. In October 2001, Hitchens wrote
criticisms of Chomsky in The Nation.^[89]^[90] Chomsky responded^[91] and
Hitchens issued a rebuttal to Chomsky^[92] to which Chomsky again responded.^[9
] Approximately a year after 11 September attacks and his exchanges with
Chomsky, Hitchens left The Nation, claiming that its editors, readers and
contributors considered John Ashcroft a bigger threat than Osama bin Laden,^[93
] and that they were making excuses on behalf of Islamist terrorism; in the
following months he wrote articles increasingly at odds with his colleagues.

Christopher Hitchens argued the case for the Iraq War in a 2003 collection of
essays entitled A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq, and
participated in public debates on the topic with George Galloway,^[94] Scott
Ritter,^[95] and his brother Peter Hitchens.^[96]

Criticism of George W. Bush[edit]

Prior to 11 September 2001, and the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan, Hitchens
was critical of President George W. Bush's "non-interventionist" foreign
policy. He also criticised Bush's support of intelligent design^[97] and
capital punishment.^[98]

Although Hitchens defended Bush's post-11 September foreign policy, he
criticised the actions of US troops in Abu Ghraib and Haditha, and the US
government's use of waterboarding, which he unhesitatingly deemed as torture
after he was invited by Vanity Fair to voluntarily undergo it.^[99]^[100] In
January 2006, Hitchens joined with four other individuals and four
organisations, including the American Civil Liberties Union and Greenpeace, as
plaintiffs in a lawsuit, ACLU v. NSA, challenging Bush's warrantless domestic
spying program; the lawsuit was filed by the ACLU.^[101]^[102]^[103]

Presidential endorsements[edit]

Hitchens would elaborate on his political views and ideological shift in a
discussion with Eric Alterman on Bloggingheads.tv. In this discussion Hitchens
revealed himself to be a supporter of Ralph Nader in the 2000 US presidential
election, who was disenchanted with the candidacy of both George W. Bush and Al
Gore.^[104]

[220px-DebateCommissionProt]
 
Hitchens speaking at a September 2000 third party protest at the headquarters
of the Commission on Presidential Debates

Hitchens made a brief return to The Nation just before the 2004 US presidential
election and wrote that he was "slightly" for Bush; shortly afterwards, Slate
polled its staff on their positions on the candidates and mistakenly printed
Hitchens's vote as pro-John Kerry. Hitchens shifted his opinion to "neutral",
saying: "It's absurd for liberals to talk as if Kristallnacht is impending with
Bush, and it's unwise and indecent for Republicans to equate Kerry with
capitulation. There's no one to whom he can surrender, is there? I think that
the nature of the jihadist enemy will decide things in the end".^[105]

In the 2008 presidential election, Hitchens in an article for Slate stated, "I
used to call myself a single-issue voter on the essential question of defending
civilisation against its terrorist enemies and their totalitarian protectors,
and on that 'issue' I hope I can continue to expose and oppose any ambiguity."
He was critical of both main party candidates, Barack Obama and John McCain,
but wrote that Obama would be the better choice. Hitchens went on to call
McCain "senile", and his choice of running mate Sarah Palin "absurd", calling
Palin a "pathological liar" and a "national disgrace". Hitchens also wrote that
"Obama is greatly overrated" and that the Obama-Biden ticket "show[s] some
signs of being able and willing to profit from experience".^[106]

Israel–Palestine[edit]

Hitchens had said of himself, "I am an Anti-Zionist. I'm one of those people of
Jewish descent who believes that Zionism would be a mistake even if there were
no Palestinians."^[107]

A review of his autobiography Hitch-22 in The Jewish Daily Forward refers to
Hitchens "at the time [that he had learned that his grandparents were Jews, he
had been] a prominent anti-Zionist" and says that he viewed Zionism "as an
injustice against the Palestinians".^[108] Others have commented on his
anti-Zionism as well.^[109] At other times for example speaking at 2nd annual
Memorial for Daniel Pearl, and in print in an article for The Atlantic he had
made comments against the terrorism against Jews in the Middle East. Hitchens
stated "But the Jews of the Arab lands were expelled again in revenge for the
defeat of Palestinian nationalistic aspirations, in 1947–48, and now the
absolute most evil and discredited fabrication of Jew-baiting Christian
Europe—The Protocols of the Elders of Zion—is eagerly promulgated in the Hamas
charter and on the group's Web site and recycled through a whole nexus of
outlets that includes schools as well as state-run television stations".^[110]

In Slate magazine, Hitchens pondered the notion that, instead of curing
antisemitism through the creation of a Jewish state, "Zionism has only replaced
and repositioned"^[111] it, saying: "there are three groups of 6 million Jews.
The first 6 million live in what the Zionist movement used to call Palestine.
The second 6 million live in the United States. The third 6 million are
distributed mainly among Russia, France, Britain, and Argentina. Only the first
group lives daily in range of missiles that can be (and are) launched by people
who hate Jews." Hitchens argued that instead of supporting Zionism, Jews should
help "secularise and reform their own societies", believing that unless one is
religious, "what the hell are you doing in the greater Jerusalem area in the
first place?" Indeed, Hitchens goes so far as to claim that the only
justification for Zionism given by Jews is a religious one.^[112]

In his 2006 debate with Martin Amis, Hitchens stated that "one must not insult
or degrade or humiliate people"^[113] and that he "would be opposed to this
maltreatment of the Palestinians if it took place on a remote island with no
geopolitical implications". Hitchens described Zionism as "an ethno-nationalist
quasi-religious ideology" and stated his desire that if possible, he would
"re-wind the tape [to] stop Herzl from telling the initial demagogic lie
(actually two lies) that a land without a people needs a people without a land
".

He continued to say that Zionism "... nonetheless has founded a sort of
democratic state which isn't any worse in its practice than many others with
equally dubious origins." He stated that settlement in order to achieve
security for Israel is "doomed to fail in the worst possible way", and the
cessation of this "appallingly racist and messianic delusion" would "confront
the internal clerical and chauvinist forces which want to instate a theocracy
for Jews". Hitchens contended that the "solution of withdrawal would not
satisfy the jihadists" and wondered "What did they imagine would be the
response of the followers of the Prophet [Muhammad]?" Hitchens bemoaned the
transference into religious terrorism of Arab secularism as a means of
democratisation: "the most depressing and wretched spectacle of the past
decade, for all those who care about democracy and secularism, has been the
degeneration of Palestinian Arab nationalism into the theocratic and
thanatocratic hell of Hamas and Islamic Jihad".^[111] He maintained that the
Israel-Palestine conflict is a "trivial squabble" that has become "so dangerous
to all of us" because of "the faith-based element."^[113]

Hitchens collaborated on this issue with prominent Palestinian advocate Edward
Said, in 1988 publishing Blaming the Victims: Spurious Scholarship and the
Palestinian Question.

Domestic policy[edit]

Hitchens actively supported drug policy reform and called for the abolition of
the "War on Drugs" which he described as an "authoritarian war" during a debate
with William F. Buckley.^[26] He supported the legalisation of cannabis for
both medical and recreational purposes, citing it as a cure for glaucoma and as
treatment for numerous side-effects induced by chemotherapy, including severe
nausea, describing the prohibition of the drug as "sadistic".^[114]^[not in
citation given]

Other[edit]

Other issues on which Hitchens wrote included his support for the reunification
of Ireland,^[115]^[116] abolition of the British monarchy,^[117] the
establishment of a self-governing state for the Kurds^[118] and his
condemnation of the war crimes of Slobodan Milošević^[119] in the Yugoslav Wars
, and criticised Franjo Tuđman for colluding with Milošević on a partition of
Bosnia and empowering Croatian war criminals.^[120]

Criticism of Mormonism[edit]

Hitchens was extremely critical of the doctrinal claims of Mormonism^[121] and
opposed the candidacy of Mitt Romney.^[122]

Critiques of specific individuals[edit]

Hitchens was known for his scathing critiques of public figures. Three
figures—Bill Clinton, Henry Kissinger, and Mother Teresa—were the targets of
three separate full length texts, No One Left to Lie To: The Triangulations of
William Jefferson Clinton, The Trial of Henry Kissinger, and The Missionary
Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice. Hitchens also wrote book-length
biographical essays about Thomas Jefferson (Thomas Jefferson: Author of America
), George Orwell (Why Orwell Matters), and Thomas Paine (Thomas Paine's "Rights
of Man": A Biography).

The majority of Hitchens's critiques took the form of short opinion pieces,
including critiques of: Jerry Falwell,^[123]^[124] George Galloway,^[125] Mel
Gibson,^[126] the 14th Dalai Lama,^[127] Michael Moore,^[128] Daniel Pipes,^[
129] Ronald Reagan,^[130] Jesse Helms,^[131] and Cindy Sheehan.^[30]^[132] When
comedian Bob Hope died in 2003, Hitchens wrote an attack piece on him, calling
Hope "a fool and nearly a clown, but he was never even remotely a comedian" and
"Quick, then—what is your favorite Bob Hope gag? It wouldn't take you long if I
challenged you on Milton Berle, or Woody Allen, or John Cleese, or even Lenny
Bruce or Mort Sahl. By this time tomorrow, I bet you haven't come up with a
real joke for which Hope could take credit." Critics argued that Hitchens
focused solely on Hope's declining years and ignored his heyday in the 1940s.^[
133]

Views on religion[edit]

See also: God Is Not Great

Hitchens often spoke against the Abrahamic religions. When asked by readers of
The Independent (London) what he considered to be the "axis of evil", Hitchens
replied "Christianity, Judaism, Islam – the three leading monotheisms."^[134]
Hitchens also argued in a 2007 conversation that the success of the Maccabean
Revolt was the most unfortunate blunder in human history due to the reversion
from Hellenistic thought and philosophy that it constituted.^[135] In God Is
Not Great, he expanded his criticism to include all religions, including those
rarely criticised by Western secularists, such as Buddhism and neo-paganism.
The book received mixed responses, from praise in The New York Times for his
"logical flourishes and conundrums"^[136] to accusations of "intellectual and
moral shabbiness" in the Financial Times.^[137] God Is Not Great was nominated
for a National Book Award on 10 October 2007.^[138]^[139]

Hitchens said that organized religion is "the main source of hatred in the
world",^[140] "[v]iolent, irrational, intolerant, allied to racism, tribalism,
and bigotry, invested in ignorance and hostile to free inquiry, contemptuous of
women and coercive toward children: [it] ought to have a great deal on its
conscience". He was relieved to see no evidence for a Heaven, which to him
would function like "a celestial North Korea". He often spoke about his efforts
to champion "antitheist" as a descriptor as "atheist" was not strong enough to
encompass the immoral conundrum that the existence of a "supervising deity"
would imply. In God Is Not Great, Hitchens said that:

    [A]bove all, we are in need of a renewed Enlightenment, which will base
    itself on the proposition that the proper study of mankind is man and woman
    [alluding to Alexander Pope]. This Enlightenment will not need to depend,
    like its predecessors, on the heroic breakthroughs of a few gifted and
    exceptionally courageous people. It is within the compass of the average
    person. The study of literature and poetry, both for its own sake and for
    the eternal ethical questions with which it deals, can now easily depose
    the scrutiny of sacred texts that have been found to be corrupt and
    confected. The pursuit of unfettered scientific inquiry, and the
    availability of new findings to masses of people by electronic means, will
    revolutionise our concepts of research and development. Very importantly,
    the divorce between the sexual life and fear, and the sexual life and
    disease, and the sexual life and tyranny, can now at last be attempted, on
    the sole condition that we banish all religions from the discourse. And all
    this and more is, for the first time in our history, within the reach if
    not the grasp of everyone.^[141]

[220px-John_Lennox_and_Chri]
 
Hitchens and John Lennox at an "Is God Great?" debate (Alabama, 2009)

God Is Not Great rendered Hitchens a major advocate of the "New Atheism"
movement, and he also was made an Honorary Associates of the Rationalist
International^[142] and the National Secular Society^[143] Hitchens said he
would accept an invitation from any religious leader who wished to debate with
him. He also served on the advisory board of the Secular Coalition for America,
^[144] a lobbying group for atheists and humanists in Washington, DC. In 2007,
Hitchens began a series of written debates on the question "Is Christianity
Good for the World?" with Christian theologian and pastor, Douglas Wilson,
published in Christianity Today magazine.^[145] This exchange eventually became
a book by the same title in 2008. During their book tour to promote the book,
film producer Darren Doane sent a film crew to accompany them. Doane produced
the film Collision: Is Christianity GOOD for the World?, which was released on
27 October 2009. On 4 April 2009 Hitchens debated William Lane Craig on the
existence of God at Biola University.^[146]

On 26 November 2010, Hitchens appeared in Toronto, Ontario at the Munk Debates,
where he debated religion with former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, a
convert to Roman Catholicism. Blair argued religion is a force for good, while
Hitchens was against it. Preliminary results on the Munk website said 56 per
cent of the votes backed the proposition (Hitchens's position) before hearing
the debate, with 22 per cent against (Blair's position), and 21 per cent
undecided, with Hitchens gaining a 68 per cent to 32 per cent victory over
Blair after the debate.^[147]^[148]

In February 2006, Hitchens helped organise a pro-Denmark rally outside the
Danish Embassy in Washington, DC in response to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad
cartoons controversy.^[149]

Hitchens was accused by Bill Donohue of the Catholic League for Religious and
Civil Liberties of being particularly anti-Catholic. Hitchens responded "when
religion is attacked in this country ... the Catholic Church comes in for a
little more than its fair share".^[150] Hitchens had also been accused of
anti-Catholic bigotry by others, including Brent Bozell, Tom Piatak in The
American Conservative, and UCLA Law Professor Stephen Bainbridge.^[151]^[152]
In an interview with Radar in 2007, Hitchens said that if the Christian right's
agenda were implemented in the United States "It wouldn't last very long and
would, I hope, lead to civil war, which they will lose, but for which it would
be a great pleasure to take part."^[153] When Joe Scarborough on 12 March 2004
asked Hitchens whether he was "consumed with hatred for conservative
Catholics", Hitchens responded that he was not and that he just thinks that
"all religious belief is sinister and infantile".^[154] Piatak claimed that "A
straightforward description of all Hitchens's anti-Catholic outbursts would
fill every page in this magazine", noting particularly Hitchens's assertion
that US Supreme Court Justice John Roberts should not be confirmed because of
his faith.^[152]

Hitchens was raised nominally Christian, and went to Christian boarding
schools, but from an early age declined to participate in communal prayers.
Later in life, Hitchens discovered that he was of Jewish descent on his
mother's side. According to Hitchens, when his brother Peter took his fiancée
to meet their maternal grandmother, who was then in her 90s, she said of his
fiancée, "She's Jewish, isn't she?" and then announced: "Well, I've got
something to tell you. So are you." Hitchens found out that his maternal
grandmother, Dorothy (née Levin), was Jewish (Dorothy's father and maternal
grandfather were born Jewish, and Dorothy's maternal grandmother—Hitchens's
matrilineal great-great-grandmother—was a convert to Judaism). Hitchens's
maternal grandfather converted to Judaism before marrying Dorothy Levin.^[155]
Hitchens's Jewish-born ancestors were immigrants from Eastern Europe (including
Poland).^[21]^[156] In an article in The Guardian on 14 April 2002, Hitchens
stated that he could be considered Jewish because Jewish descent is
traditionally traced matrilineally.^[21]^[157] In a 2010 interview at New York
Public Library, Hitchens stated that he was against infant circumcision, a
Jewish ritual, and that he believed "if anyone wants to saw off bits of their
genitalia they should do it when they're grown up and have made the decision
for themselves".^[158]

In February 2010, Christopher Hitchens was named to the Honorary Board of
distinguished achievers of the Freedom From Religion Foundation.^[159]

Hitchens's razor[edit]

The following dictum is widely attributed to Hitchens and has become known as
Hitchens's razor:^[160]^[161]^[162]

    What can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence.

Hitchens's razor is actually an English translation of the Latin proverb "Quod
gratis asseritur, gratis negatur",^[163] which has been widely used at least
since the early 19th century.^[164]

Personal life[edit]

[220px-HitchensTalk]
 
Hitchens after a talk at The College of New Jersey in March 2009

Marriages and children[edit]

Hitchens was married twice, first to Eleni Meleagrou,^[165] a Greek Cypriot, in
a Greek Orthodox church^[166] in 1981; the couple had a son, Alexander, and a
daughter, Sophia. They divorced in 1989. From February 1990, Hitchens's
girlfriend was reported as being Carol Blue, a Californian screenwriter.^[167]
In 1991 Hitchens married Blue^[40] in a ceremony held at the apartment of
Victor Navasky, editor of The Nation. They had a daughter, Antonia.^[40]

Parents[edit]

Hitchens' father, Eric Hitchens, was a commander in the British Royal Navy.
Hitchens often referred to his father as simply the 'Commander'. Hitchens'
father was deployed on HMS Jamaica which took part in the sinking of the German
battleship Scharnhorst in the Battle of the North Cape on 26 December 1943.
Christopher Hitchens would refer to his father's contribution to the war:
'Sending a Nazi convoy raider to the bottom is a better day's work than any I
have ever done.' He also stated that 'the remark that most summed him [his
father] up was the flat statement that the war of 1939 to 1945 had been "the
only time when I really felt I knew what I was doing."'^[168]

Hitchens' mother, Yvonne, died in Athens in 1973 when, despite first reports in
The Times that she had been murdered, it was later concluded that her death had
been the result of an apparent suicide pact with her boyfriend, Reverend
Timothy Bryan. Hitchens travelled to Athens to identify his mother's body. On
the subject Hitchens later said: 'She probably thought things were getting
sordid—he [Bryan] wasn't able to hold a job down, she couldn't go back, she was
probably about the age I am now and perhaps there was that—she'd been very
pretty—and things were never going to get any better, so why go through with
it? She might not have been that hard to persuade, but I know that she did try
to save herself because I have the photographs still. So that was sort of the
end of family life really.'^[169]

In reference to writing about his mother in his memoir, Hitch-22, he said, 'It
was painful to write about my mother, but not very because long ago I
internally managed all that. 'I even went back to Greece and I went to the
graveyard while I was writing the book and decided not to write about it. I
thought that would be sentimental.'^[170]

Relationship with his younger brother[edit]

Christopher Hitchens described him as "A very brilliant guy, very thoughtful,
very good writer, with political views polar opposite of mine."^[171]
Hitchens's younger brother by two-and-a-half years, Peter Hitchens, is a
Christian and socially conservative journalist, although, like his brother, he
had been a Trotskyist in the 1970s. The brothers had a protracted falling-out
after Peter wrote that Christopher had once joked that he "didn't care if the
Red Army watered its horses at Hendon" (a suburb of London).^[172] Christopher
denied having said this and broke off contact with his brother. He then
referred to his brother as "an idiot" in a letter to Commentary, and the
dispute spilled into other publications as well. Christopher eventually
expressed a willingness to reconcile and to meet his new nephew (born in 1999);
shortly thereafter the brothers gave several interviews together in which they
said that their personal disagreements had been resolved. In 1999, the brothers
debated before an audience (which included Ian McEwan, Salman Rushdie and Billy
Bragg) in London, televised on C-SPAN.^[173] They appeared together on 21 June
2007 in the BBC current affairs discussion show Question Time. The pair engaged
in a formal televised debate for the first time on 3 April 2008, at Grand
Valley State University,^[96] and at the Pew Forum on 12 October 2010.^[174]

Smoking and drinking[edit]

The Sunday Times described Hitchens as "Usually armed with a glass of Scotch
and an untipped Rothmans cigarette."^[175] In late 2007 he briefly gave up
smoking, although he resumed during the writing of his memoir and continued
until his cancer diagnosis.^[176] Hitchens admitted to drinking heavily; in
2003 he wrote that his daily intake of alcohol was enough "to kill or stun the
average mule", arguing that many great writers "did some of their finest work
when blotto, smashed, polluted, shitfaced, squiffy, whiffled, and three sheets
to the wind."^[177]

George Galloway notably accused Hitchens of being a "drink-sodden ex-Trotskyist
popinjay",^[178] to which Hitchens replied, "only some of which is true."^[179]
Hitchens later elaborated: "He says that I am an ex-Trotskyist (true), a
'popinjay' (true enough, since the word's original Webster's definition is a
target for arrows and shots), and that I cannot hold a drink (here I must
protest)."^[180] Hitchens's wife Carol Blue described him as "obviously an
alcoholic, he functions at a really high level and he doesn't act like a drunk,
so the only reason it's a bad thing is it's taking out his liver, presumably.
It would be a drag for Henry Kissinger to live to a hundred and Christopher to
keel over next year."^[181] His profile in The New Yorker described him as
drinking "like a Hemingway character: continually and to no apparent effect."^[
181]

Oliver Burkeman writes, "Since the parting of ways on Iraq ... Hitchens claims
to have detected a new, personalised nastiness in the attacks on him,
especially over his fabled consumption of alcohol. He welcomes being attacked
as a drinker 'because I always think it's a sign of victory when they move on
to the ad hominem.' He drank, he said, 'because it makes other people less
boring. I have a great terror of being bored. But I can work with or without
it. It takes quite a lot to get me to slur.'"^[182]

In his 2010 memoir Hitch-22, Hitchens wrote: "There was a time when I could
reckon to outperform all but the most hardened imbibers, but I now drink
relatively carefully." He described his then-current drinking routine on
working-days as follows: "At about half past midday, a decent slug of Mr.
Walker's amber restorative, cut with Perrier water (an ideal delivery system)
and no ice. At luncheon, perhaps half a bottle of red wine: not always more but
never less. Then back to the desk, and ready to repeat the treatment at the
evening meal. No 'after dinner drinks'—most especially nothing sweet and never,
ever any brandy. 'Nightcaps' depend on how well the day went, but always the
mixture as before. No mixing: no messing around with a gin here and a vodka
there."^[183]

Reflecting on the lifestyle that supported his career as a writer he said:

    I always knew there was a risk in the bohemian lifestyle ... I decided to
    take it because it helped my concentration, it stopped me being bored—it
    stopped other people being boring. It would make me want to prolong the
    conversation and enhance the moment. If you ask: would I do it again? I
    would probably say yes. But I would have quit earlier hoping to get away
    with the whole thing. I decided all of life is a wager and I'm going to
    wager on this bit ... In a strange way I don't regret it. It's just
    impossible for me to picture life without wine, and other things, fueling
    the company, keeping me reading, energising me. It worked for me. It really
    did.^[184]

Final illness and death[edit]

[220px-Hitchens_2010]
 
Hitchens in 2010

In June 2010, Hitchens was on tour in New York promoting his memoirs Hitch-22
when he was taken into emergency care suffering from a severe pericardial
effusion and then announced he was postponing his tour to undergo treatment for
esophageal cancer.^[185]^[186] He announced that he was undergoing treatment in
a Vanity Fair piece titled "Topic of Cancer".^[49] Hitchens said that he
recognised the long-term prognosis was far from positive, and that he would be
a "very lucky person to live another five years".^[187]

During his illness, Hitchens was under the care of Francis Collins and was the
subject of Collins' new cancer treatment, which maps out the human genome and
selectively targets damaged DNA.^[188]^[189]

In April 2011, Hitchens was forced to cancel an appearance at the American
Atheist Convention, and instead sent a letter that stated, "Nothing would have
kept me from joining you except the loss of my voice (at least my speaking
voice) which in turn is due to a long argument I am currently having with the
specter of death." He closed with "And don't keep the faith."^[190] The letter
also dismissed the notion of a possible deathbed conversion, in which he
claimed that "redemption and supernatural deliverance appears even more hollow
and artificial to me than it did before."^[190]

In September 2011, Christian apologist and debate opponent William Lane Craig
stated that he was impressed with how some Christians had positive feelings for
Hitchens, stating "[d]espite his vitriolic attacks upon Christianity he has a
sort of lovable curmudgeonly quality about him that everybody I meet who has
seen him loves Christopher Hitchens, and they are genuinely and sincerely
praying for either his recovery or for his coming to know Christ as his savior
before his death. People have a genuine heart-felt concern for this man."^[191]

Hitchens died on 15 December 2011 at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center in Houston.^[192] According to Andrew Sullivan, his last words were
"Capitalism. Downfall."^[84]

In accordance with his wishes, his body was donated to medical research.^[193]

Hitchens wrote a book-length work about his last illness, based on his Vanity
Fair columns. "Mortality" was published in September 2012.^[194]^[195]

Reactions to Hitchens's death[edit]

[220px-Hitchens_Blair]
 
Former British prime minister Tony Blair and Hitchens at the Munk debate on
religion, Toronto, November 2010

Former British prime minister Tony Blair said, "Christopher Hitchens was a
complete one-off, an amazing mixture of writer, journalist, polemicist, and
unique character. He was fearless in the pursuit of truth and any cause in
which he believed. And there was no belief he held that he did not advocate
with passion, commitment, and brilliance. He was an extraordinary, compelling,
and colourful human being whom it was a privilege to know."^[196]

Richard Dawkins, British evolutionary biologist at the University of Oxford and
a friend of Hitchens, said, "I think he was one of the greatest orators of all
time. He was a polymath, a wit, immensely knowledgeable, and a valiant fighter
against all tyrants, including imaginary supernatural ones."^[196]

American theoretical physicist and cosmologist Lawrence Krauss, also a friend
of Hitchens, said, "Christopher was a beacon of knowledge and light in a world
that constantly threatens to extinguish both. He had the courage to accept the
world for just what it is and not what he wanted it to be. That's the highest
praise, I believe, one can give to any intellect. He understood that the
universe doesn't care about our existence or welfare and he epitomized the
realization that our lives have meaning only to the extent that we give them
meaning."^[197]^[198]^[199]^[200]

American standup comedian and television host Bill Maher paid tribute to
Hitchens on his show Real Time with Bill Maher, saying, "We lost a hero of
mine, a friend, and one of the great talk show guests of all time."^[201]^[202]

Many distinguished people and friends of Hitchens, including Sir Salman Rushdie
and English comedian Stephen Fry, paid tribute at the Christopher Hitchens
Vanity Fair Memorial 2012.^[203]^[204]^[205]^[206]^[207]

Three weeks before Hitchens's death, George Eaton of the New Statesman wrote,
"He is determined to ensure that he is not remembered simply as a 'lefty who
turned right' or as a contrarian and provocateur. Throughout his career, he has
retained a commitment to the Enlightenment values of reason, secularism and
pluralism. His targets—Mother Teresa, Bill Clinton, Henry Kissinger, God—are
chosen not at random, but rather because they have offended one or more of
these principles. The tragedy of Hitchens's illness is that it came at a time
when he enjoyed a larger audience than ever. The great polemicist is certain to
be remembered, but, as he is increasingly aware, perhaps not as he would like."
^[208]

On 9 October 2012, Hitchens was posthumously given the LennonOno Grant for
Peace, accepted by his widow Carol Blue.^[209]

Film and television appearances[edit]

As referenced from the Hitchens Web or Charlie Rose.^[210]^[211]

  Year                          Film, DVD, or TV Episode
1984      Opinions: "Greece to their Rome"
1988      Frontiers
1993      Everything You Need to Know
1994      Tracking Down Maggie: The Unofficial Biography of Margaret Thatcher
          Hell's Angel
1996      Where's Elvis This Week?
1996–2010 Charlie Rose (talk show) (13 episodes)
1998      Princess Diana: The Mourning After
1999–2001 Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher
1999–2002 Dennis Miller Live (TV show; 4 episodes)
2002      The Trials of Henry Kissinger
2003      Hidden in Plain Sight
2003–09   Real Time with Bill Maher (TV show; 6 episodes)
2004      Mel Gibson: God's Lethal Weapon
2004–06   Newsnight (TV show; 3 episodes)
2004–10   The Daily Show (TV show; 4 episodes)
          Penn & Teller: Bullshit! (TV show; 1 episode, s03e05)
2005      The Al Franken Show (Radio show; 1 episode)
          Confronting Iraq: Conflict and Hope
          Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism
2005–08   Hardball with Chris Matthews (TV show; 3 episodes)
2006      American Zeitgeist
          Blog Wars
          Manufacturing Dissent
          Question Time (TV series) (1 episode)
2007      Your Mommy Kills Animals
          Personal Che
          Heckler
          In Pot We Trust
          Can Atheism Save Europe? (DVD; 9 August 2008 debate with John Lennox
          at the Edinburgh International Festival)
2008      Discussions with Richard Dawkins: Episode 1: "The Four Horsemen"
          (DVD; 30 September 2007)
          Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed
          Holy Hell (Chap. 5 in 6 Part Web Film on iTunes)^[212]
          God on Trial (DVD; September 2008 debate with Dinesh D'Souza)
2009      President: A Political Road Trip
          Collision: "Is Christianity GOOD for the World?" (DVD; Fall 2008
          debates with Douglas Wilson)
          Does God Exist? (DVD; 4 April 2009 debate with William Lane Craig)
          Phil Ochs: There But For Fortune
2010      The God Debates, Part I: A Spirited Discussion (DVD; debate with
          Shmuley Boteach; Host: Mark Derry; Commentary: Miles Redfield)
          Is God Great? (DVD; 3 March 2009 debate with John Lennox at Samford
          University)
2011      92Y: Christopher Hitchens (DVD; 8 June 2010 dialogue with Salman
          Rushdie at 92nd Street Y)
          ABC Lateline^[213] (TV show, 2 episodes)

Books[edit]

[261px-Christopher_Hitchens_read]
 
Christopher Hitchens reading his book Hitch 22
Main article: Christopher Hitchens bibliography

  • 1984 Cyprus. Quartet. Revised editions as Hostage to History: Cyprus from
    the Ottomans to Kissinger, 1989 (Farrar, Straus & Giroux) and 1997 (Verso)
  • 1988 Blaming the Victims: Spurious Scholarship and the Palestinian Question
    (contributor; co-editor with Edward Said) Verso, ISBN 0-86091-887-4
    Reissued, 2001
  • 1988 Prepared for the Worst: Selected Essays and Minority Reports Hill and
    Wang, ISBN 0809078678
  • 1990 The Monarchy, Chatto & Windus Ltd
  • 1990 Blood, Class and Nostalgia: Anglo-American Ironies, Farrar Straus &
    Giroux (T)(June 1990)
  • 1993 "For The Sake Of Argument" Verso
  • 1995 The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice, Verso
  • 1997 The Parthenon Marbles: The Case for Reunification, Verso
  • 1999 No One Left to Lie To: The Values of the Worst Family, Verso
  • 2000 Unacknowledged Legislation: Writers in the Public Sphere, Verso
  • 2001 The Trial of Henry Kissinger. Verso.
  • 2001 Letters to a Young Contrarian, Basic Books
  • 2002 Why Orwell Matters also Orwell's Victory, Basic Books, ISBN
    0-465-03050-5
  • 2003 A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq. Plume/Penguin
    Group, ISBN 0-452-28498-8
  • 2004 Love, Poverty, and War: Journeys and Essays, Thunder's Mouth, Nation
    Books, ISBN 1-56025-580-3
  • 2005 Thomas Jefferson: Author of America, Eminent Lives/Atlas Books/
    HarperCollins Publishers, ISBN 0-06-059896-4
  • 2007 "Thomas Paine's Rights of Man: A Biography ", Atlantic Monthly Press,
    ISBN 0-87113-955-3
  • 2007 The Portable Atheist: Essential Readings for the Non-Believer,
    [Editor] Perseus Publishing. ISBN 978-0-306-81608-6
  • 2007 God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything, Twelve/Hachette
    Book Group USA/Warner Books, ISBN 0-446-57980-7 / Published in the UK as
    God is not Great: The Case Against Religion, Atlantic Books, ISBN
    978-1-84354-586-6
  • 2008 Christopher Hitchens and His Critics: Terror, Iraq and the Left (with
    Simon Cottee and Thomas Cushman), New York University Press
  • 2008 Is Christianity Good for the World?—A Debate (co-author, with Douglas
    Wilson), Canon Press, ISBN 1-59128-053-2
  • 2010 Hitch-22: A Memoir, Twelve, ISBN 978-0-446-54033-9 OCLC 464590644
  • 2011 Arguably: Essays by Christopher Hitchens, Twelve. UK edition as
    Arguably: Selected Prose, Atlantic, ISBN 1-4555-0277-4 / ISBN
    978-1-4555-0277-6
  • 2012 Mortality, Twelve, ISBN 1-4555-0275-8 / ISBN 978-1-4555-0275-2. UK
    edition as Mortality, Atlantic Books, ISBN 1-84887-921-0 / ISBN
    978-1-84887-921-8
  • 2015 And Yet...: Essays, Simon & Schuster, ISBN 978-1476772066

References[edit]

 1. ^ Woo, Elaine (15 December 2011). "Christopher Hitchens dies at 62;
    engaging, enraging author and essayist". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 27
    January 2013. 
 2. ^ "Christopher Hitchens on George Orwell". NetCharles.com. 24 June 2002.
    Archived from the original on 27 January 2012. Retrieved 17 December 2011. 
 3. ^ Christopher Hitchens and his Critics, p. 264.
 4. ^ ^a ^b ^c "In Depth with Christopher Hitchens". BookTV. 2 September 2007.
    C-SPAN. ; List of writers can be seen @ 1:13:10
 5. ^ Kennard, Matt (17 April 2011). "Johann Hari on Chomsky, Hitchens, Iraq,
    and anarchism". Thecommentfactory.com. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
 6. ^ Alexandra Alter (11 May 2010). "A Friendship for the Pages". The Wall
    Street Journal. 
 7. ^ ^a ^b 'Hitchens, Christopher Eric', Who's Who 2012, A & C Black, 2012;
    online edn, Oxford University Press, December 2012 ; online edn, January
    2012 accessed 5 May 2012
 8. ^ "Hitch-22 (Christopher Hitchens' memoir)". 
 9. ^ ^a ^b Noam Chomsky, "Reply to Hitchens's Rejoinder", The Nation, 15
    October 2001
10. ^ "Profiles: He Knew He Was Right : The New Yorker". The New Yorker. 16
    October 2006. Retrieved 30 September 2014. 
11. ^ Eaton, George. (12 July 2010). "Interview: Christopher Hitchens". The New
    Statesman. Retrieved 7 November 2010. 
12. ^ "A discussion about Christopher Hitchens (52-minute video)". Charlie
    Rose. 13 April 2012. Retrieved 12 October 2012. 
13. ^ Paxman meets Hitchens full 30 minute interview with BBCs Jeremy Paxman
    RIP on YouTube
14. ^ Andre Mayer (14 May 2007). "Nothing sacred—Journalist and provocateur
    Christopher Hitchens picks a fight with God". Canadian Broadcasting
    Corporation. Archived from the original on 16 May 2007. Retrieved 2 May
    2014. 
15. ^ Lucy Popescu (30 April 2012). "Mortality, by Christopher Hitchens". The
    Independent. Retrieved 16 September 2012. 
16. ^ Peter Wilby. "Christopher Hitchens obituary". the Guardian. Retrieved 30
    September 2014. 
17. ^ "Results for England & Wales Births 1837–2006". findmypast. Retrieved 10
    June 2015. 
18. ^ Yglesias, Matthew (20 October 2003). "The Commander: My Father, Eric
    Hitchens". Slate. Retrieved 16 December 2011. 
19. ^ ^a ^b "The Boy Can't Help It". NYMag.com. Retrieved 30 September 2014. 
20. ^ ^a ^b "On Christopher Hitchens' Jewishness". Tablet Magazine. 
21. ^ ^a ^b ^c Look who's talking The Observer, 14 April 2002
22. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Walsh, John. The Independent. "Hitch-22: A memoir by
    Christopher Hitchens" Retrieved 28 May 2010
23. ^ Peter Wilby (Jan 2015). "Hitchens, Christopher Eric (1949–2011)". Oxford
    Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. doi
    :10.1093/ref:odnb/104479.  (Subscription or UK public library membership
    required.)
24. ^ Lynn Barber "Look who's talking", The Observer, 14 April 2002
25. ^ Blake Morrison I contain multitudes, The Guardian, 29 May 2010
26. ^ ^a ^b "YOU SAID YOU WANTED A REVOLUTION: 1968 and the
    Counter-Counterculture (Peter Robinson interview with William Buckley Jr
    and Christopher Hitchens)". web.archive.org. Hoover Institution. 15
    September 2007. Archived from the original on 15 September 2007. Retrieved 
    12 October 2012. 
27. ^ "Christopher Hitchens: 'I was right and they were wrong'". Decca
    Aitkenhead. The Guardian. 21 May 2010. Retrieved 26 January 2015. 
28. ^ "So who WERE the two Tory ministers who had gay flings with Christopher
    Hitchens at Oxford?". dailymail.co.uk. dailymail.co.uk. 6 March 2010.
    Retrieved 26 January 2015. 
29. ^ Long Live Labor—Why I'm for Tony Blair Slate, 25 April 2005
30. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d "Interviews: Christopher Hitchens", Heaven on Earth: The Rise
    and Fall of Socialism, PBS, 2005 
31. ^ Barber, Lynn (14 April 2002). "Look who's talking". The Observer.
    Retrieved 30 June 2015. 
32. ^ International Socialism: Christopher Hitchens "Workers' Self Management
    in Algeria" (1st series), No.51, April–June 1972, p.33, Encyclopedia of
    Trotskyism, 25 October 2005
33. ^ Alexander Linklater (May 2008). "Christopher Hitchins". Prospect.
    Archived from the original on 30 April 2008. Retrieved 17 February 2009. 
34. ^ "Christopher Hitchens Explains Why You Should Quit Your Job". YouTube.
    Retrieved 16 December 2011. 
35. ^ ^a ^b ^c Eaton, George (2 January 2012). "Christopher Hitchens: the New
    Statesman years". The New Statesman. 
36. ^ Barber, Lynn (13 April 2002). "Look who's talking". The Guardian (London)
    . Retrieved 1 April 2010. 
37. ^ "Kissinger Declassified". Vanity Fair. 
38. ^ Remembering Hitchens by Victor Navasky, The Nation, 21 December 2011
39. ^ For the Sake of Argument by Christopher Hitchens Interview with Brian
    Lamb for the show Booknotes, an author interview series on C-SPAN (some
    biographical information) 17 October 1993
40. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Meryl Gordon (19 April 1999). "The Boy Can't Help It
    (in-depth interview and profile)". New York. Retrieved 12 October 2012. 
41. ^ ^a ^b ^c ^d Southan, Rhys (November 2001). "Free Radical". Reason.
    Retrieved 2015-06-10. 
42. ^ Christopher Hitchens The Atlantic, 2003
43. ^ Guy Raz, Christopher Hitchens, Literary Agent Provocateur, National
    Public Radio, 21 June 2006
44. ^ He Knew He Was Right The New Yorker, Profiles, 16 October 2006
45. ^ Christopher Hitchens Notable Interviews—video interview 2007
46. ^ Christopher Hitchens – Contributing Editor at the Wayback Machine
    (archived 28 February 2010). Retrieved 23 December 2011.
47. ^ Timothy Noah, Meritocracy's lab rat Slate, 9 January 2002
48. ^ Annabel's—the magazine Vogue UK, 15 July 2004
49. ^ ^a ^b Hitchens, Christopher. "Topic of Cancer". Vanity Fair. Archived
    from the original on 2011-12-17. Retrieved 8 August 2014. 
50. ^ "Christopher Hitchens on Sarah Palin: 'A Disgraceful Opportunist and
    Moral Coward'". PoliticalArticles.NET. 18 December 2009. Archived from the
    original on 14 May 2011. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
51. ^ At the Rom: Three New Commandments She Does The City, 30 April 2009
52. ^ "Childhood's End", Vanity Fair, September 2006
53. ^ "Realism in Sudan", Slate, 7 November 2005
54. ^ Christopher Hitchens^[dead link] Twelve Publishers
55. ^ Detailed Biographical Information—Christopher Hitchens at the Wayback
    Machine (archived 14 November 2004), Lannan Foundation. Retrieved 27 April
    2010.
56. ^ "An afterword to the life of Christopher Hitchens – Late Night Live – ABC
    Radio National (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)". Radio National.
    Retrieved 30 September 2014. 
57. ^ ^a ^b "Salon Newsreal | Stalking Sidney Blumenthal". Salon.com. Retrieved
    26 April 2011. 
58. ^ Christopher Hitchens (July–August 2003). "Thinking Like an Apparatchik".
    The Atlantic Monthly 292 (1): 129–42. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
59. ^ Andrew Werth (January–February 2004). "Hitchens on Books". The Atlantic.
    Retrieved 17 February 2009. 
60. ^ John Banville (3 March 2001). "Gore should be so lucky". The Irish Times.
    Retrieved 17 February 2009. 
61. ^ Gore Vidal on Christopher Hitchens on YouTube
62. ^ Christopher Hitchens (February 2010). "Vidal Loco". Vanity Fair.
    Retrieved 24 June 2010. 
63. ^ Youde, Kate (7 February 2010). "Hitchens attacks Gore Vidal for being a
    'crackpot'". The Independent (London). Retrieved 17 February 2009. 
64. ^ "Top 100 Public Intellectuals Results". The Foreign Policy Group. 15 May
    2008. 
65. ^ The Prospect/FP Top 100 Public Intellectuals^[dead link] Foreign Policy
66. ^ 2007 National Magazine Award Winners Announced Press release, Magazine
    Publishers of America, 1 May 2007
67. ^ National Magazine Awards Winners and Finalists Magazine Publishers of
    America
68. ^ "Christopher Hitchens Wins National Magazine Award for Columns About
    Cancer". Vanity Fair. Retrieved 16 December 2011. 
69. ^ "2011 National Magazine Awards Winners and Finalists". Magazine
    Publishers of America. 9 May 2011. 
70. ^ "Secular Coalition for America Advisory Board Biography". Secular.org.
    Retrieved 20 July 2011. 
71. ^ Weiner, Juli (6 December 2011). "Asteroid Named for Christopher Hitchens"
    . Vanity Fair. 
72. ^ Authors—Christopher Hitchens The Atlantic
73. ^ The Immortal Rejoinders of Christopher Hitchens. Vanity Fair (videotape)
    (Vanity Fair). 16 December 2011. 2:40 minutes in. Retrieved 25 February
    2012. 
74. ^ FIVE QUESTIONS FOR: Christopher Hitchens SF Gate
75. ^ "The 25 Most Influential Liberals in the US Media". Forbes. 22 January
    2009. Retrieved 23 November 2009. 
76. ^ Dalrymple, Theodore (June–July 2010). "The Brothers Grim". First Things.
    Retrieved 25 December 2013. 
77. ^ Martin Amis Christopher Hitchens a conversation about Antisemitism and
    Saul Bellow Part 3 on YouTube
78. ^ Solomon, Deborah (2 June 2010). "The Contrarian". The New York Times.
    Retrieved 19 February 2011. 
79. ^ Christopher Hitchens. "The Revenge of Karl Marx" The Atlantic, April 2009
80. ^ Hitchens, Christopher (1997), "Goodbye to All That", The New York Review
    of Books, 17 July 1997
81. ^ Just a Pretty Face? The Guardian, 11 July 2004
82. ^ Amis, Martin (2002). Koba the Dread. Miramax. p. 25. ISBN 0-7868-6876-7. 
83. ^ "Great Lives—Leon Trotsky", BBC Radio 4, 8 August 2006
84. ^ ^a ^b Sullivan, Andrew (20 April 2012). "The Hitch Has Landed". The Daily
    Beast. Retrieved 13 December 2012. 
85. ^ "That Bleeding Heart Wolfowitz", Slate, 22 March 2005
86. ^ "Ahmad and Me", Slate, 27 May 2004
87. ^ Johann Hari, "In Enemy Territory: An Interview with Christopher Hitchens"
    , The Independent, 23 September 2004.
88. ^ Christopher Hitchens, "The End of Fukuyama", Slate, 1 March 2006
89. ^ Christopher Hitchens, "Of Sin, the Left & Islamic Fascism", The Nation, 8
    October 2001
90. ^ Christopher Hitchens, "Blaming bin Laden First" The Nation, 22 October
    2001
91. ^ Noam Chomsky, "Reply to Hitchens", The Nation, 15 October 2001
92. ^ Christopher Hitchens, "A Rejoinder to Noam Chomsky", The Nation, 15
    October 2001
93. ^ Christopher Hitchens, "Taking Sides", The Nation, 26 September 2002
94. ^ "George Galloway vs Christopher Hitchens (1 of 12)". YouTube. Retrieved 
    26 April 2011. 
95. ^ "Christopher Hitchens versus Ritter—Iraq War debate part 1". YouTube. 30
    April 2009. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
96. ^ ^a ^b "Hitchens v. Hitchens: Faith, Politics & War". Grand Valley State
    University. 3 April 2008. Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
97. ^ Belz, Mindy. "According to Hitch", World Magazine, 3 April 2006
98. ^ "A War To Be Proud Of" Weekly Standard, 5 September 2005
99. ^ "Believe Me, It's Torture", Vanity Fair, August 2008
100. ^ "Video: On the Waterboard". Vanity Fair. Archived from the original on 9
    August 2011. 
101. ^ Lichtblau, Eric. "Two Groups Planning to Sue Over Federal Eavesdropping"
    The New York Times, 17 January 2006. Retrieved 5 November 2009
102. ^ "Statement—Christopher Hitchens, NSA Lawsuit Client". Aclu.org. 16
    January 2006. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
103. ^ Hitchens, Christopher (7 August 1999). "Gov. Death". Salon.com.
    Retrieved 10 May 2009. 
104. ^ On Whether Christopher Hitchens Was Wrong Bloggingheads.tv, 14 October
    2008
105. ^ My Endorsement and Osama's Video: The news in Bin Laden's comments had
    nothing to do with our election Slate, 1 November 2004
106. ^ Hitchens, Christopher "Vote for Obama" Slate, 13 October 2008. Retrieved
    5 November 2009
107. ^ Hölbling, Walter; Rieser-Wohlfarter, Klaus (2004). What is American?:
    new identities in U.S. culture. LIT Verlag Münster. pp. 351–. ISBN 
    978-3-8258-7734-7. Retrieved 6 April 2011. 
108. ^ Goldstein, Evan R. (June 2010). "Born Grumpy, with a Talent for It:
    Christopher Hitchens's Memoir is Too Happy by Far". Jewish Daily Forward. 
109. ^ Rodden, John (2006). Every intellectual's big brother: George Orwell's
    literary siblings. University of Texas Press. pp. 95–. ISBN 
    978-0-292-71308-6. Retrieved 6 April 2011. 
110. ^ Christopher Hitchens (11 August 2010). "Chosen". The Atlantic. 
111. ^ ^a ^b "Slate: Can Israel Survive for Another 60 Years?". Slate.com.
    Retrieved 8 July 2011. 
112. ^ Kerstein, Benjamin. "Christopher Hitchens's Jewish Problem". Jewish
    Ideas Daily. Retrieved 9 May 2012. 
113. ^ ^a ^b "Frontpage Interview: Christopher Hitchens Part II". FrontPage
    Magazine. Retrieved 8 July 2011. 
114. ^ Just a Pretty Face? by Sean O'Hagan, The Observer, 11 July 2004
115. ^ Galloway vs. Hitchens: The Transcript endusmilitarism, 16 September 2005
116. ^ These Men Are "Peacemakers"? Ian Paisley and Gerry Adams make me want to
    spew Slate, 2 April 2007
117. ^ Hitchens, Christopher (6 December 2000). "End of the line". The Guardian
    (UK). 
118. ^ "Christopher Hitchens talks about the Kurdish people". Youtube.
    Retrieved 6 April 2013. 
119. ^ "In Defense of WWII: Chapter 5 of 5". Youtube. Retrieved 7 September
    2008. 
120. ^ "Shed No Tears for Milosevic". FrontPage Magazine. 14 March 2006.
    Retrieved 7 September 2008. 
121. ^ "From God Is Not Great". Slate Magazine. 27 April 2007. Retrieved 30
    September 2014. 
122. ^ "Romney's Mormon Problem". Slate Magazine. 17 October 2011. Retrieved 30
    September 2014. 
123. ^ Video: Christopher Hitchens (15 May 2007) appearance on Anderson Cooper
    360 on YouTube
124. ^ Video: Christopher Hitchens (16 May 2007) appearance on Hannity & Colmes
    about Rev. Falwell's Death on YouTube
125. ^ Unmitigated Galloway Weekly Standard, 30 May 2005
126. ^ Mel Gibson's Meltdown Slate, 31 July 2006
127. ^ His material highness Salon.com article by Christopher Hitchens
128. ^ Unfairenheit 9/11 Slate, 21 June 2004
129. ^ Christopher Hitchens "Daniel Pipes is not a man of peace", Slate, 11
    August 2003
130. ^ "The stupidity of Ronald Reagan". Slate. Retrieved 9 May 2007. 
131. ^ Christopher Hitchens (7 July 2008). "Farewell to a Provincial Redneck".
    Slate. 
132. ^ Christopher Hitchens, Cindy Sheehan's Sinister Piffle, Slate, 15 August
    2005
133. ^ "Bob Hope wasn't funny. – Slate Magazine". Slate Magazine. 1 August 2003
    . Retrieved 30 September 2014. 
134. ^ "You Ask the Questions; (such as: So, Christopher Hitchens, are You a
    Role Model for the Englishman Abroad? and what's Your Next Feud Going to
    be?)." The Independent (London): 7. Print. 6 March 2002.
135. ^ "The Four Horseman - Hitchens, Dawkins, Dennet, Harris [2007]".
    Retrieved December 24, 2015.  Approximately 112 minutes in, Hitchens
    contends, "The moment where everything went wrong is the moment when the
    Jewish hellenists were defeated by the Jewish messiahs, the celebration now
    benignly known as Hanukkah."
136. ^ Michael Kinsley "In god, Distrust" The New York Times Book Review, 13
    May 2007
137. ^ Here's the hitch by Michael Skapinker in The Financial Times
138. ^ "The Associated Press: Hitchens Among Book Award Finalists". google.com.
    Archived from the original on 13 October 2007. 
139. ^ Hardcover Nonfiction The New York Times Best Seller list, 3 June 2007
140. ^ Free Speech onegoodmove, March 2007
141. ^ Hitchens, Christopher (May 2007). God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons
    Everything. New York: Twelve Books. p. 283. 
142. ^ [1] National Secular Society
143. ^ Honorary Associate: Christopher Hitchens National Secular Society
144. ^ Biography—Christopher Hitchens Secular Coalition for America Advisory
    Board
145. ^ "Is Christianity Good for the World?" Christianity Today, 8 May 2007
146. ^ "Hitchens vs. Caig: Round Two" Christianity Today, 6 April 2009
147. ^ "Hitchens apparent winner in religion debate". CBC News. 27 November
    2010. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
148. ^ "Munk Debates Website". Munkdebates.com. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
149. ^ Pareene, Alex (4 February 2006). "Instant Team Party Crash: Legoland
    Uber Alles". Wonkette. Retrieved 9 December 2010. 
150. ^ Look Who's Hammering Mel^[dead link] 1 August 2006
151. ^ "Hood, John Hollowed Be Thy Name". Miami Sun Post Web.archive.org (21
    May 2007). Retrieved 23 December 2011.
152. ^ ^a ^b Tom Piatak, The Purest Neocon: Christopher Hitchens, an
    unreconstructed Bolshevik, finds his natural home on the pro-war Right, The
    American Conservative, 10 October 2005
153. ^ "Godless Provocateur Christopher Hitchens Pledges Allegiance to America"
    . Holidaydmitri.com. 1 May 2007. Retrieved 26 April 2011. 
154. ^ "'Scarborough Country' for March 11". msnbc.com. 
155. ^ Hitch-22
156. ^ Hitch-22, page 352.
157. ^ [2] In the Tanakh itself, Jewishness is traced primarily patrilineally.
    Thus, Dorothy Levin would be considered a Patrilineal Jew and a Levit –that
    is, a Levite woman. But her children would be considered only gentiles of
    Jewish descent.
158. ^ Christopher Hitchens at NYPL w. Paul Holdengräber (4-Jun-10)(2–9)(THE
    INTERVIEW series) on YouTube (18 September 2010). Retrieved 23 December
    2011.^[dead link]^[dead link]
159. ^ "Honorary FFRF Board Announced". Archived from the original on 17
    December 2010. Retrieved 20 August 2008. 
160. ^ Coyne, Jerry (January 16, 2014). "The 'Best Arguments for God's
    Existence' Are Actually Terrible". New Republic. 
161. ^ Christopher Hitchens, "Mommie Dearest" – slate.com. October 20, 2003.
162. ^ Christopher Hitchens, God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything
    (2007) p.150. Twelve Books, New York.
163. ^ Jon R. Stone, The Routledge Dictionary of Latin Quotations (2005), p.
    101.
164. ^ e.g. The Classical Journal, Vol. 40 (1829), p. 312.
165. ^ William Grimes (16 December 2011). "Christopher Hitchens, Polemicist Who
    Slashed All, Freely, Dies at 62". New York Times. Retrieved 10 January 2014
    . 
166. ^ Levy, Geoffery, "So Who Were the Two Tory Ministers Who Had Gay Flings
    with Christopher Hitchens at Oxford?", Daily Mail, 6 March 2010. Retrieved
    30 May 2010
167. ^ The Washington Times 9 February 1990, Friday, Final Edition BYLINE:
    Charlotte Hays; THE WASHINGTON TIMES SECTION: Part E; LIFE; CHARLOTTE'S
    WEB; Pg. E1
168. ^ Hichens, Christopher (2 June 2010). "The Commander: My Father, Eric
    Hitchens". Slate.com. Retrieved 14 April 2012. 
169. ^ Lynn Barber (13 April 2002). "Lynn Barber meets Christopher Hitchens".
    The Guardian. Retrieved 14 April 2012. 
170. ^ "Hitch-22: A Memoir", Huffington Post
171. ^ "Christopher Hitchens – On C-SPAN discussing his book 'For the Sake of
    Argument' [1993]". YouTube. 
172. ^ Christopher Hitchens (16 May 2005). "O Brother, Why Art Thou?". Vanity
    Fair. Condé Nast Publications. Retrieved 20 December 2011. 
173. ^ "[The Abolition of Britain] – C-SPAN Video Library". C-spanvideo.org. 14
    October 1999. Retrieved 7 November 2012. 
174. ^ "Can Civilization Survive Without God?". Pew Research Center's Religion
    & Public Life Project. 12 October 2010. 
175. ^ The Sunday Times (London) 18 December 2011 Sunday Edition 1; Northern
    Ireland Christopher Hitchens; OBITUARIES; Polemicist who lived a life of
    dissolution and contrariness SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; OBITUARIES; Pg.
    8
176. ^ Edward Luce, Lunch with the Financial Times, 11 January 2008
177. ^ Christopher Hitchens (March 2003). "Living Proof'". Vanity Fair.
    Retrieved 28 June 2012. 
178. ^ Unmitigated Galloway , The Weekly Standard, 30 May 2005
179. ^ "There's only one popinjay here, George", Evening Standard, 19 May 2005
180. ^ George Galloway Is Gruesome, Not Gorgeous, Slate, 13 September 2005
181. ^ ^a ^b Ian Parker (16 October 2006). "He Knew He Was Right". The New
    Yorker. 
182. ^ Oliver Burkeman, War of words, The Guardian, 28 October 2006
183. ^ A Short Footnote on the Grape and the Grain, Slate, 6 June 2010
184. ^ "Q&A with Christopher Hitchens". C-SPAN. Retrieved 26 November 2014. 
185. ^ "Hitchens has his voice back". furiouspurpose.me. 16 June 2011. Archived
    from the original on 12 November 2013. Retrieved 12 October 2012. 
186. ^ "Reliable Source – Christopher Hitchens diagnosed with cancer, cuts
    short his book tour". The Washington Post. Retrieved 16 December 2011. 
187. ^ Goldberg, Jeffrey (6 August 2010). "Hitchens Talks to Goldblog About
    Cancer and God". The Atlantic. Retrieved 17 September 2010. 
188. ^ Neville, Simon (26 March 2011). "Atheist Christopher Hitchens turns to
    evangelical Christian doctor in his fight against cancer". Daily Mail (UK).
    Retrieved 16 December 2011. `Dr Francis Collins, the former director of the
    National Human Genome Research Project was one part of the team which
    developed techniques to map out the entire human DNA make-up is using
    Hitchens as a guinea pig for a new treatment. Hitchens, author of God is
    Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything, has had his genome mapped out
    in its entirety by taking DNA from healthy tissue and from his cancerous
    tumour.' 
189. ^ "Atheist Hitchens Credits Evangelical Francis Collins for Cancer Hope".
    The Christian Post. Retrieved 16 December 2011. `In an interview with U.K.
    Telegraph Magazine, Hitchens said that Collins, who was formerly the
    director of the National Center for Human Genome Research and now serves as
    director of the National Institutes of Health, is partially responsible for
    developing a new cancer treatment that maps out the patient's entire
    genetic make-up and targets damaged DNA.' 
190. ^ ^a ^b Scienceblogs.com article: "Hitchens's address to American Atheists
    ."
191. ^ "Reasonable Faith - Christopher Hitchens and Death (2011)". Reasonable
    Faith. 19 September 2011. Retrieved 4 January 2016. 
192. ^ Arnold, Laurence (16 December 2011). "Christopher Hitchens, Who Wrote of
    War, God, Cancer Battle, Dies Aged 62". Bloomberg L.P. Retrieved 16
    December 2011. 
193. ^ "Memorial gatherings and the body of Christ(opher)". 24 December 2011.
    Retrieved 2015-06-10. 
194. ^ Mortality by Christopher Hitchens. Twelve Books. 21 June 2012. Retrieved
    10 January 2014. 
195. ^ Christopher Hitchens (2012). Mortality. ISBN 978-0-7710-3922-5. 
196. ^ ^a ^b Quotes on the death of pundit Christopher Hitchens. Associated
    Press. 16 December 2011. Retrieved 22 July 2013.
197. ^ "Remembering Christopher Hitchens". archive.org. Archived from the
    original on 24 April 2012. 
198. ^ "Lawrence Krauss' tribute to Christopher Hitchens". Atheist Foundation
    of Australia Inc. 
199. ^ "Lawrence Krauss – Christopher Hitchens Tribute". YouTube. 
200. ^ "Lawrence Krauss – Christopher Hitchens Tribute – 2012 Global Atheist
    Convention – Atheist Media Blog". atheistmedia.com. 
201. ^ Real Time with Bill Maher Season 10, episode 1
202. ^ "Bill Maher's Tribute to Christopher Hitchens (2012)". YouTube. 
203. ^ Alison Flood. "Christopher Hitchens: tributes and reactions". the
    Guardian. 
204. ^ "Christopher Hitchens Vanity Fair Memorial – April 20th, 2012 Full/HD".
    YouTube. 
205. ^ "Christopher Hitchens's Memorial: Sean Penn, Martin Amis, Salman
    Rushdie, and Others Pay Tribute". Vanity Fair. 
206. ^ "BBC News – Tributes paid to journalist Christopher Hitchens". BBC News.
     
207. ^ Ed Pilkington. "Christopher Hitchens' wit and warmth remembered as New
    York pays tribute". the Guardian. 
208. ^ George Eaton. "Hitch's Rolls-Royce mind is still purring". the New
    Statesman. 
209. ^ "Christopher Hitchens And Pussy Riot To Get John Lennon Peace Prize
    (PICTURES, VIDEO)". Huffington Post. 20 September 2012. 
210. ^ "Hitchens Web". Retrieved 7 April 2010. 
211. ^ "Charlie Rose". Retrieved 17 August 2010. 
212. ^ Cangialosi, Jason. "Interview with 'Holy Hell' Filmmaker Rafael Antonio
    Ruiz". Yahoo! Inc. Retrieved 1 February 2013. ^[dead link]
213. ^ "ABC Lateline interview". Retrieved 10 August 2012. 

External links[edit]

[40p] Wikinews has news related to:
      Christopher Hitchens

[34p] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Christopher Hitchens

● Wikimedia Commons has media related to Christopher Hitchens.

Portal icon Atheism portal
Portal icon United Kingdom portal
Portal icon Biography portal

  • Christopher Hitchens on National Public Radio in 2010
  • Drexel Interview (One-hour video interview) with Paula Marantz Cohen, June
    2010
  • Works by or about Christopher Hitchens in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
  • Christopher Hitchens collected news and commentary at The Guardian
  • Christopher Hitchens collected news and commentary at The New York Times
  • Appearances on C-SPAN
      □ Booknotes interview with Hitchens on For the Sake of Argument, 17
        October 1993.
      □ In Depth interview with Hitchens, 2 September 2007
      □ C-SPAN Q&A interview with Hitchens, 26 April 2009
      □ C-SPAN Q&A interview with Hitchens, 23 January 2011 (This interview
        took place during Hitchens's treatments for esophageal cancer.)
  • "Christopher Hitchens feature stories", Prospect magazine, May 2008
  • "Incendiary Author Spares No Targets" feature story in The New Zealand
    Herald, May 2008
  • "Such, Such are His Joys" David Brooks assessment in The New York Times, 1
    July 2010
  • Hitchens on Dying with Cancer, video interview with The Atlantic, August
    2010
  • "Christopher Hitchens: 'You have to choose your future regrets'" The
    Guardian, 13 November 2010
  • "Christopher Hitchens's Jewish Problem" feature article on Jewish Ideas
    Daily, 13 December 2010
  • A debate between Hitchens and Berlinski 2010
  • Outspoken and outrageous: Christopher Hitchens a 60 Minutes profile aired 6
    March 2011
  • "Farewell to C.H." Alexander Cockburn CounterPunch Diary 16–18 December
    2011
  • Nicholas Money, Oxford, Ohio (December 2011). "Remembering Christopher
    Hitchens". Retrieved 27 November 2014. 
  • Obituary on the World Socialist Web Site

Articles by Hitchens

  • Contributor page at Vanity Fair
  • Column archive at The Atlantic
  • Article archive at The Guardian
  • Hitchens articles at Slate
  • Article archive at Journalisted

                                       • v
                                       • t
                                       • e

                             Christopher Hitchens
   Beliefs       • Political views

                 • The Missionary Position
                 • Letters to a Young Contrarian
                 • No One Left to Lie To
                 • The Trial of Henry Kissinger
                 • Why Orwell Matters
                 • A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq
Works authored   • Love, Poverty, and War: Journeys and Essays
                 • Thomas Jefferson: Author of America
                 • Thomas Paine's "Rights of Man": A Biography
                 • God Is Not Great
                 • Hitch-22: A Memoir
                 • Arguably: Essays
                 • Mortality

                 • Blaming the Victims (with Edward Said)
 Works edited    • The Portable Atheist: Essential Readings for the
                   Non-Believer

                 • Christopher Hitchens bibliography
                 • 57901 Hitchens
    Other        • Hell's Angel
                 • The Trials of Henry Kissinger
                 • Peter Hitchens

                            • v
                            • t
                            • e

                  Criticism of religion
                        • Buddhism
                        • Christianity
                            □ Catholic
                                ☆ Opus Dei
                            □ Jehovah's Witnesses
                            □ Latter Day Saint movement
                            □ Protestantism
                            □ Seventh-day Adventist
                            □ Unification Church
                            □ Westboro Baptist Church
                        • Hinduism
     By religion        • Islam
                            □ Islamism
                            □ Twelver Shi’ism
                            □ Wahhabism
                        • Jainism
                        • Judaism
                        • Monotheism
                        • New religious movement
                        • Scientology
                        • Sikhism
                        • Yazdânism
                        • Zoroastrianism

                        • Bible
                        • Quran
                        • Hadiths
   Religious texts      • Mormon sacred texts
                            □ Book of Mormon
                        • Talmud

                        • Aisha
                        • Charles Taze Russell
                        • Ellen White
                        • Jesus
  Religious figures     • Moses
                        • Muhammad
                        • Mirza Ghulam Ahmad
                        • Saul

                        • Buddhism
                        • Christianity
                            □ Mormonism
                        • Judaism
                        • Islam
                        • Terrorism
                            □ Christian
                            □ Hindu
                            □ Islamic
                            □ Jewish
                        • Persecution
Religion and violence       □ By Christians
                        • War
                            □ In Islam
                            □ In Judaism
                        • Segregation
                        • Sectarian violence
                        • By country
                            □ India
                                ☆ Anti-Christian violence
                                ☆ In Odisha
                            □ Nigeria
                            □ Pakistan

                        • Atheist Manifesto
                        • Christianity Unveiled
                        • God in the Age of Science?
                        • God Is Not Great
                        • Letter to a Christian Nation
        Books           • The Age of Reason
                        • The End of Faith
                        • The God Delusion
                        • The Rage Against God
                        • Why I Am Not a Christian
                        • Why I Am Not a Muslim

                        • Antitheism
                        • Atheism
                        • Criticism of atheism
                        • Cārvāka
      Movements         • Church of the SubGenius
                        • Flying Spaghetti Monster
                        • Invisible Pink Unicorn
                        • Nontheistic religions

                        • Abraham Kovoor
                        • Ali Sina
                        • André Servier
                        • Annie Laurie Gaylor
                        • Arun Shourie
                        • Ayaan Hirsi Ali
                        • Ayn Rand
                        • B.R. Ambedkar
                        • Baron d'Holbach
                        • Bat Ye'or
                        • Bertrand Russell
                        • Bill Hicks
                        • Bill Maher
                        • Carl Sagan
                        • Christopher Hitchens
                        • Dan Barker
                        • Daniel Dennett
                        • David Hume
                        • David Silverman
                        • Dayananda Saraswati
                        • Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya
                        • Denis Diderot
                        • Epicurus
                        • Frank Zappa
                        • Friedrich Nietzsche
                        • George Carlin
                        • Greydon Square
                        • Herman Philipse
                        • Howard Stern
       People           • Ibn Warraq
                        • James Randi
                        • Jamila Bey
                        • Joxe Azurmendi
                        • Kancha Ilaiah
                        • Karl Marx
                        • Ludwig Feuerbach
                        • Madalyn Murray O'Hair
                        • Magdi Allam
                        • Mandisa Thomas
                        • Mark Twain
                        • Max Stirner
                        • Michael Shermer
                        • Michel Onfray
                        • Nonie Darwish
                        • Oriana Fallaci
                        • Pat Condell
                        • Penn & Teller
                        • Periyar E. V. Ramasamy
                        • PZ Myers
                        • Richard Dawkins
                        • Salman Rushdie
                        • Sam Harris
                        • Sigmund Freud
                        • Sikivu Hutchinson
                        • Socrates
                        • Taslima Nasrin
                        • Thomas Paine
                        • Victor J. Stenger
                        • Voltaire
                        • Walter Kaufman

                    • WorldCat
                    • VIAF: 98819926
                    • LCCN: n84159549
                    • ISNI: 0000 0000 8055 7431
                    • GND: 124425763
Authority control   • SUDOC: 029312531
                    • BNF: cb12096520r (data)
                    • MusicBrainz: b56415e7-c2d5-4a1f-af56-afacb58c244b
                    • NDL: 00893345
                    • NKC: xx0042052
                    • ICCU: IT\ICCU\MILV\060863

*
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Christopher_Hitchens
&oldid=698897841"
Categories:

  • Christopher Hitchens
  • 1949 births
  • 2011 deaths
  • 20th-century American writers
  • 21st-century American writers
  • 20th-century British writers
  • 21st-century British writers
  • Alumni of Balliol College, Oxford
  • American atheists
  • American anti-war activists
  • American autobiographers
  • American essayists
  • American foreign policy writers
  • American male writers
  • American humanists
  • American literary critics
  • American male journalists
  • American Marxists
  • American non-fiction writers
  • American people of English descent
  • American people of English-Jewish descent
  • American political activists
  • American political philosophers
  • American social commentators
  • American socialists
  • American Trotskyists
  • Bisexual men
  • Bisexual writers
  • Anti–Vietnam War activists
  • Anti-Zionism in the United Kingdom
  • Anti-Zionism in the United States
  • Antitheists
  • Atheism activists
  • Atheist philosophers
  • British anti-war activists
  • British atheists
  • British autobiographers
  • British emigrants to the United States
  • British essayists
  • British foreign policy writers
  • British humanists
  • British Jewish writers
  • British literary critics
  • British male journalists
  • British Marxists
  • British non-fiction writers
  • British political philosophers
  • British republicans
  • British socialists
  • Cancer deaths in Texas
  • Critics of religions
  • Deaths from bronchopneumonia
  • Deaths from esophageal cancer
  • Deaths from pneumonia
  • Genital integrity activists
  • Free speech activists
  • International opponents of apartheid in South Africa
  • Jewish activists
  • Jewish anti-Zionism
  • Jewish atheists
  • Jewish humanists
  • Jewish non-fiction writers
  • Jewish philosophers
  • Jewish socialists
  • Labour Party (UK) people
  • LGBT rights activists from the United Kingdom
  • LGBT rights activists from the United States
  • LGBT writers from England
  • Male essayists
  • Materialists
  • PEN/Diamonstein-Spielvogel Award winners
  • People connected with Tavistock
  • People educated at The Leys School
  • People from Portsmouth
  • Slate (magazine) people
  • Socialist Workers Party (UK) members
  • The Atlantic (magazine) people
  • The Nation (U.S. magazine) people
  • Vanity Fair (magazine) people
  • Writers from Washington, D.C.

Hidden categories:

  • Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the ODNB
  • All articles with dead external links
  • Articles with dead external links from June 2012
  • Articles with dead external links from January 2015
  • Articles with dead external links from December 2011
  • Articles with dead external links from May 2015
  • Use British English from January 2013
  • Use dmy dates from November 2014
  • Biography with signature
  • Articles with hCards
  • Use dmy dates from June 2015
  • All articles with failed verification
  • Articles with failed verification from June 2015
  • Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata
  • Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  • Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  • Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  • Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  • Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  • Wikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers
  • Wikipedia articles with SBN identifiers

Navigation menu

Personal tools

  • Not logged in
  • Talk
  • Contributions
  • Create account
  • Log in

Namespaces

  • Article
  • Talk

Variants 

Views

  • Read
  • Edit
  • View history

More 

Search

[Search][Go]
 

Navigation

  • Main page
  • Contents
  • Featured content
  • Current events
  • Random article
  • Donate to Wikipedia
  • Wikipedia store

Interaction

  • Help
  • About Wikipedia
  • Community portal
  • Recent changes
  • Contact page

Tools

  • What links here
  • Related changes
  • Upload file
  • Special pages
  • Permanent link
  • Page information
  • Wikidata item
  • Cite this page

Print/export

  • Create a book
  • Download as PDF
  • Printable version

Languages

  • Afrikaans
  • العربية
  • Български
  • Brezhoneg
  • Català
  • Čeština
  • Cymraeg
  • Dansk
  • Deutsch
  • Ελληνικά
  • Español
  • Esperanto
  • فارسی
  • Føroyskt
  • Français
  • Gaeilge
  • 한국어
  • Hrvatski
  • Bahasa Indonesia
  • Italiano
  • עברית
  • Latviešu
  • Magyar
  • Македонски
  • മലയാളം
  • მარგალური
  • Baso Minangkabau
  • Nederlands
  • 日本語
  • Norsk bokmål
  • Norsk nynorsk
  • ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  • Polski
  • Português
  • Română
  • Русский
  • Shqip
  • Simple English
  • کوردیی ناوەندی
  • Српски / srpski
  • Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  • Suomi
  • Svenska
  • தமிழ்
  • Türkçe
  • Українська
  • Tiếng Việt
  • ייִדיש
  • 中文
  •  

Edit links

  • This page was last modified on 8 January 2016, at 22:40.
  • Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License
     ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms
    of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the
    Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  • Privacy policy
  • About Wikipedia
  • Disclaimers
  • Contact Wikipedia
  • Developers
  • Mobile view

  • Wikimedia Foundation
  • Powered by MediaWiki

