[logo]
                                  [INS::INS]

The towns are stunned by the sound of the muezzin 0

Obama said: “One of the prettiest sounds on earth” is the Muslim call to
prayer.

Here it is, sounding now 5 times a day throughout Germany – the land of Bach
and Beethoven.

 

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Germany, Islam, Muslims by Jillian Becker on Saturday, January 23,
2016

Tagged with Islamized Germany, Muslim Europe

This post has 0 comments.

Permalink

The evidence against her 1

… is overwhelming, damning, grave.

 

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under corruption, Crime, United States, Videos by Jillian Becker on
Friday, January 22, 2016

Tagged with Hillary Clinton, Judge Andrew Napolitano, Megyn Kelly, Steve Hayes

This post has 1 comment.

Permalink

A hell-hag as leader and role model? 2

hillary_clinton_6

Who is the woman whom millions of Americans would vote for to become the first
woman president of the United States? What sort of woman is she? What has she
done? What does she stand for? What sort of model would she be for rising
generations of Americans?

Is she a person of model character? No. She is an habitual liar (see here and
here), a conniver and plotter; arrogant, corrupt, and vicious and cruel.

Is she a person who has achieved great things? No. Her only achievements have
been catastrophes, bringing incalculable suffering upon millions of people who
live their precarious lives in frail societies, most notably in Libya, where
she brought unending chaos; in Nigeria, where she actively encouraged Boko
Haram, the butchers of untold numbers of defenseless Christians; in Egypt,
where she did all she could (but fortunately failed) to keep the tyrannical
Muslim Brotherhood in power; in Iran, where she has helped Obama strengthen the
oppressive dictatorship of the Ayatollahs.

Is she a woman of ideas? Does she at least associate herself with a political
philosophy that promotes freedom, openness, tolerance? No. She has not
articulated a single original political idea. And far from promoting freedom,
openness and tolerance, she has actively worked with Islamic enemies of America
to shut down free speech.

Is she clever? No. Cunning, yes, she is. But she lives in a sort of mental
glass house in which she is forever throwing stones. Apparently oblivious to
the facts of her own life, she denounces the very people and activities that
support her political existence. It is a kind of blind, blundering stupidity.

Or call it “cognitive dissonance”. Examples of it are given by Victor Davis
Hanson, who writes at Townhall:

    Hillary Clinton recently said she would go after offshore tax “schemes” in
    the Caribbean. …

    Yet her husband, Bill Clinton, reportedly made $10 million as an advisor
    and an occasional partner in the Yucaipa Global Partnership, a fund
    registered in the Cayman Islands.

    Is Ms. Clinton’s implicit argument that she knows offshore tax dodging is
    unethical because her family has benefitted from it? Does she plan to
    return millions of dollars of her family’s offshore-generated income?

    Clinton is calling for “huge campaign finance reform,” apparently to end
    the excessive and often pernicious role of big money in politics. But no
    candidate, Republican or Democrat, raised more than the $112 million that
    Clinton collected in 2015 for her primary campaign.

    In 2013, Clinton earned nearly $1.6 million in speaking fees from Wall
    Street banks. She raked in $675,000 from Goldman Sachs, and $225,000 apiece
    from Bank of America, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and UBS Wealth
    Management. Did that profiteering finally make Clinton sour on Wall
    Street’s pay-for-play ethics?

    Clinton has also vowed to raise taxes on hedge fund managers. Is that a way
    of expressing displeasure with her son-in-law, Marc Mezvinsky, who operates
    a $400 million hedge fund?

    For that matter, how did Clinton’s daughter, Chelsea – who worked for a
    consulting firm and a hedge fund despite having no background in finance –
    reportedly become worth an estimated $15 million?

    Hillary Clinton recently proposed a new $350 billion government plan to
    make college more affordable. Certainly, universities spike tuition costs,
    and student-loan debt has surpassed $1 trillion. Colleges spend money
    indiscriminately, mostly because they know that the federal government will
    always back student loans.

    Yet, since she left office, Clinton routinely has charged universities
    $200,000 or more for her brief 30-minute chats. Her half-hour fee is
    roughly equal to the annual public-university tuition cost for eight
    students.

    It’s been said that Clinton is trying to rekindle President Obama’s 2012
    allegations of a Republican “war on women”. That charge and the war against
    the “1 percent” helped deliver key states to Obama. Renewing that theme,
    Clinton recently declared on Twitter, “Every survivor of sexual assault
    deserves to be heard, believed, and supported.”

    Does Clinton’s spirited advocacy of “every” survivor include the array of
    women who have accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct? In other words,
    does Hillary now trust the testimonies of survivors such as Juanita
    Broaddrick, Kathleen Willey and Paula Jones, whose allegations must be
    “believed and supported”?

    Ms. Clinton has also called for more financial transparency and greater
    accountability in general – something needed after scandals at government
    agencies such as the IRS, VA and GSA. But Clinton’s use of a private email
    server probably violated several federal laws. Her laxity with confidential
    communications was arguably more egregious than that of Gen. David
    Petraeus, a national icon who pleaded guilty to mishandling classified
    materials.

    Perhaps Clinton assumes that the electorate is still in the ethical world
    of the 1990s. Back then, it was somewhat easier to dampen scandals – at
    least the ones that didn’t involve sex in the White House. But in the age
    of social media, 24-hour cable TV, instantaneous blogging and a different
    public attitude toward political corruption and sexual assault, Hillary
    Clinton now appears to be caught in the wrong century.

    Womanizing and sexual coercion can no longer be so easily dismissed. The 
    financial antics of the Clinton Foundation don’t past muster …

    Ms. Clinton at times tries to offset scandals by pointing to her record as
    secretary of state. But few believe that her handling of Russia, Iran,
    China, Benghazi or Islamic terrorism made the world calmer or America more
    secure.

There is a brazenness, an audacity, a shameless impudence in her hypocrisy that
has no match even among politicians. In this, one would have to look back to
medieval Popes to find her equal. 

Yet there are tens of millions of voters who would put enormous power into her
hands. For no better reason than that she is a woman. Such people deserve their
doom, of course. But what of the rest?

America must not fall into the talons of this hell-hag!

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under China, corruption, Diplomacy, Egypt, Ethics, government, Iran,
Islam, jihad, Leftism, Libya, middle east, Muslims, Nigeria, Russia, tyranny,
United States by Jillian Becker on Thursday, January 21, 2016

Tagged with Hillary Clinton

This post has 2 comments.

Permalink

Hillary Clinton: ready for the big house? 4

Hillary Clinton’s emails reveal more and more, and worse and worse, about her
disregard for the security of the nation she was supposed to be serving.

From GOPUSA, by Guy Benson:

    If this early January development was a bombshell, today’s revelation is a
    nuclear bombshell. Hillary Clinton’s improper, unsecure email server
    appears to have endangered national security even more than previously
    thought – and her excuses continue to melt away under intensifying
    scrutiny. [These are the] extremely serious findings from the intelligence
    community’s Inspector General … :

    Hillary Clinton’s emails on her unsecured, homebrew server contained
    intelligence from the U.S. government’s most secretive and highly
    classified programs, according to an unclassified letter from a top
    inspector general to senior lawmakers. Fox News exclusively obtained the
    text of the unclassified letter, sent Jan. 14 from Intelligence Community
    Inspector General I. Charles McCullough III. It laid out the findings of a
    recent comprehensive review by intelligence agencies that identified
    “several dozen” additional classified emails — including specific
    intelligence known as “special access programs” (SAP). …

    Intelligence from a “special access program,” or SAP, is even more
    sensitive than that designated as “top secret” – as were two emails
    identified last summer in a random sample pulled from Clinton’s private
    server she used as secretary of state. Access to a SAP is restricted to
    those with a “need-to-know” because exposure of the intelligence would
    likely reveal the source, putting a method of intelligence collection – or
    a human asset – at risk.

    Currently, some 1,340 emails designated “classified” have been found on
    Clinton’s server, though the Democratic presidential candidate insists the
    information was not classified at the time. “There is absolutely no way
    that one could not recognize SAP material,” a former senior law enforcement
    with decades of experience investigating violations of SAP procedures told
    Fox News. “It is the most sensitive of the sensitive.”

    Hillary’s campaign unsuccessfully attempted to dispute the IG’s previous
    determination that her woefully under-secure bootleg server contained
    intelligence deemed “top secret”; this is even worse.  Her already-dubious
    and legally-irrelevant “marked classified” excuse suffers another crushing
    blow. More:

    The [SAP] programs are created when “the vulnerability of, or threat to,
    specific information is exceptional,” and “the number of persons who
    ordinarily will have access will be reasonably small and commensurate with
    the objective of providing enhanced protection for the information
    involved,” it states. According to court documents, former CIA Director
    David Petraeus was prosecuted for sharing intelligence from special access
    programs with his biographer and mistress Paula Broadwell. At the heart of
    his prosecution was a non-disclosure agreement where Petraeus agreed to
    protect these closely held government programs, with the understanding
    “unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized retention or negligent handling …
    could cause irreparable injury to the United States or be used to advantage
    by a foreign nation.” Clinton signed an identical non-disclosure agreement
    Jan. 22, 2009.

    She sure did.

And it includes this line:

    As used in the Agreement [which she signed], classified information is
    marked or unmarked classified information. 

    No wonder officials inside the FBI are reportedly champing at the bit for
    an indictment.  Her conduct makes Petraeus’ criminal but limited
    indiscretions look like child’s play. In case you’d forgotten, Mrs.
    Clinton insisted last year that no classified material whatsoever had
    passed through her private server.  That lie, one of several, has now been
    disproven more than 1,300 times, and today’s news marks another devastating
    disclosure.  America’s top diplomat trafficked in the most sensitive US
    intelligence secrets that exist via her private server, which she’d
    been explicitly and urgently warned was uniquely vulnerable to foreign
    penetration.  This isn’t about breaking some arcane rules or fudging some
    statements to deflect a political headache.  This is about high-level state
    secrets being willfully and recklessly compromised by a powerful cabinet
    secretary in a hair-brained scheme to protect her political ambitions.  And
    yes, it was willful.  Her inner circle knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that
    her email arrangement was a serious problem.

    As Americans wonder whether the politicized Obama Justice Department will
    move forward with charges against Mrs. Clinton, one wonders whether she may
    come to regret uttering these words:

    There should be … no individual too big to jail.

They were uttered by her in the last debate among Democratic candidates for the
presidency.

One of the slogans of her campaign is: “Ready for Hillary?”

Hillary herself believes she has been ready for the White House ever since she
lived in it as First Lady, and perhaps since long before that.

But it is another big house she would be advised to get ready for now. The
jailhouse.

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Diplomacy, Ethics, United States by Jillian Becker on Wednesday,
January 20, 2016

Tagged with Community Inspector General I. Charles McCullough III, David
Petraeus, Guy Benson, Hillary Clinton, Paula Broadwell

This post has 4 comments.

Permalink

Britain submits 4

Conservative friends and associates in Britain tell us they despair of saving
the Kingdom from becoming an Islamic state.

Even if Britain comes out of the EU – which is highly possible at last if the
promised referendum goes the right way next year – it is unlikely to be able
save itself from its looming fate.

Mark Steyn writes:

    Canadians are dead, and so is satire. Six Quebeckers get slaughtered by
    Islamic terrorists in Burkina Faso, and to honor their memory Prime
    Minister Justin Trudeau leads a moment of silence … at a mosque.

    Speaking of prime ministers, having spent his entire premiership assuring
    us that whatever happens in the news headlines is nothing to do with Islam,
    David Cameron has suddenly discovered a few things that are to do with
    Islam. The opening paragraph from Mr Cameron’s column in the London Times:

    Where in the world do you think the following things are happening? School
    governors’ meetings where male governors sit in the meeting room and the
    women have to sit out of sight in the corridor. Young women only allowed to
    leave their house in the company of a male relative. Religious councils
    that openly discriminate against women and prevent them from leaving
    abusive marriages. The answer, I’m sorry to say, is Britain.

    Ah, right. And who in Britain bears responsibility for letting a parallel
    self-segregating society incubate and grow these last 20 years?

Much more than 20 years. Nearer to 50 years. See our post Europe betrayed,
February 11, 2010 here, where we give an account of how and why the first
twenty million Muslims were imported into Europe. 

    Mr Cameron has just noticed that 22 per cent of Muslim women in the United
    Kingdom speak little or no English, despite having lived there for decades.
    If you’re a Muslim female, the moment of silence can last for decades.

    So what’s Cameron proposing to do about it? Well, that’s all a bit more
    iffy:

    Forcing all migrants to learn English and ending gender segregation will
    show we’re serious about creating One Nation.

    Fifty years ago, aside from a few querulous Scots, Welsh and Ulster
    Catholics, you didn’t need to “create” One Nation, because you already had
    one. Anointing the most “gender segregating” culture on earth as your
    principal source of population growth is why you no longer have “One
    Nation”, and why you’re back starting from scratch. Good luck with that.

    Mr Cameron has no serious intention of slowing the right of entry of masses
    of primitive misogynists into Britain, but in an hour or so he and his
    fellow MPs will be debating whether to ban Donald Trump. Like I said,
    satire is dead.

Do some people in Britain really want to ban a possible future president of the
United Sates from entering their country? Yes. Because he suggested it might be
a good idea to ban Muslims from entering the US since Muslims are committing
acts of terrorism on US soil. Our guess is that most of the petitioners to have
Trump banned are Muslims.

And any number of primitive misogynistic Muslims are allowed to enter Britain.
Bringing sharia law with them.

    As for “gender segregation” in the Muslim world, let’s go back to that
    Peterborough [Canada] mosque where Justin Trudeau had his moment of silence
    to dishonor the Canadian dead at Islam’s hands. The mosque is run by Imam
    Shazim Khan …

Who is all for gender segregation:

    “Gender segregation”? Bring it on!

    There is no need for her [a wife] to go out. There is no need for her to
    call anybody. There is no need for her to talk to anybody … She only makes
    available herself to her husband and she protects herself and she stays
    away from everything that her husband doesn’t like in order to please him
    and to make the marriage work …

    Incidentally, Trudeau’s imam says that, if David Cameron thinks “gender
    segregation” is bad now, wait till the hereafter:

    The Prophet PBUH said because of this ingratitude [of the wives towards
    their husbands] that is why most inhabitants of hell are women.

    Cameron isn’t serious about “assimilating” the likes of Imam Khan, and
    Trudeau kisses his ass.

    Speaking of European leaders, most of them would dearly like to impose a
    moment of silence on Milos Zeman, the President of the Czech Republic. Mr
    Zeman has a different take on all this:

    The experience of Western European countries which have ghettos and
    excluded localities shows that the integration of the Muslim community is
    practically impossible … Let them have their culture in their countries and
    not take it to Europe, otherwise it will end up like Cologne.

    … referring to the mass New Year’s Eve assaults on women in Germany and
    elsewhere.

    President Zeman is a leftie, but not a suicidal one.

    Zeman, Cameron, Trudeau: Which of these guys has a better handle on
    reality?

It will end up as even worse than Cologne. Much worse. Already hundreds of
British girls have been made sex-slaves by Muslim men. The British authorities
did nothing whatever to put a stop to it.

Well before the end of this century, Britain and most of Europe will end up
like Saudi Arabia and Iran.

Later maybe Canada will too.

Just 68 years ago, Britain still possessed the greatest empire in history.

Now it is submitting to weak, primitive Islam.

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Canada, Czech Republic, Demography, Europe, immigration, Islam,
jihad, Muslims, Terrorism, United Kingdom by Jillian Becker on Tuesday, January
19, 2016

Tagged with President Milos Zeman, Prime Minister David Cameron, Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau, The Islamification of Britain

This post has 4 comments.

Permalink

Another massacre of Yazidis by the religion of peace 1

Western Journalism reports:

    Last week, CNN reported that a new mass grave filled with the bodies of
    mainly Yazidi women and children has been discovered in the city of Sinjar
    in northern Iraq. Mayor Mahama al-Shangali showed CNN reporter Nima Elgabir
    the new mass grave that contained the remains of 130 young men, women, and
    children. The Yazidis were murdered after they refused to convert to Islam
    or to cooperate with the Islamic State. The Iraqi Minister for Human Rights
    Affairs [sic!], Mohammed Shia al-Sudani, claims that ISIS terrorists buried
    more than 500 Yazidis alive in Sinjar.

Breitbart recalls:

    On August 3 2014, Islamic State jihadists overran and captured the town of
    Sinjar, in northern Iraq’s Nineveh province, sending tens of thousands of
    Yazidis fleeing before them to the supposed safety of Mount Sinjar.

    Kurdish forces managed to retake the town in November 2015. The liberators
    found one grave filled with 78 elderly women and another with at least 50
    people.

Who are the Yazidis? What do they believe?

Here is a slightly re-edited version of our April 4, 2010 post on this obscure
religion:

    The Yazidis worship  The Peacock Angel, Malak Taus. He’s identified by
    Muslims and Christians with Shaitan/Satan, so the Yazidis are held to be
    devil-worshipers.

    They are ethnic Kurds, most of them  settled in Mosul, Iraq. There are some
    in Iran, Kurdistan, Armenia, and the Caucuses. In all, it’s estimated,
    there are [were] about half a million of them. Their cult is in part an
    offshoot of Sufism, with various accretions.

    They build small temples, shrines with conical white spires, and they keep
    sacred snakes. They practice circumcision. The eating of lettuce is
    forbidden.

    They have an hereditary  priesthood under a High Priest, and sacred books.

    There is no need, they believe, to worship the Supreme God, because he is
    all good and so will never do you harm. The Peacock Angel, on the other
    hand, must be propitiated. He is capable of doing harm or good, and so must
    be won over to doing you good. Eventually he will be reconciled with the
    Supreme God, and that eventuality could come about at any moment.

    In their cosmogony, the Supreme God created the world, which is watched
    over by 7 lesser divinities or “mysteries”, chief among whom is the Peacock
    Angel, Malak Taus. God created him first, out of his own light, and ordered
    him never to bow to other beings. Then God created the other six angels,
    and ordered them to make Adam out of the dust of the earth. God took the
    inanimate body of Adam and breathed life into him, and instructed the
    angels to bow down to him. Of course Malak Taus did not bow. “I cannot
    submit to him because,” he reminded God, “I am made of  your own light,
    while he is made of dust.” This pleased God who then appointed him his
    vicar on earth.

    As its ruler, Malak Taus visits the earth on the first Wednesday of Nisan
    (March/April – roughly the same time as Easter), which is the Yazidi New
    Year’s Day, and the anniversary of the day on which God made the Peacock
    Angel. On that day they feast, make music, dance, and decorate eggs.

    God made the earth by first making a pearl, which remained very small for
    some forty thousand years, and was then expanded and reworked into its
    present state. From time to time the 7 angels are incarnated in human form
    and dwell among the living on earth. Their main annual festival is a
    week-long pilgrimage to the tomb of Sheikh Adi, their founder, who they say
    was the incarnation of one of the 7 angels. The tomb is at Lalish, north of
    Mosul.

    All Yazidis are descended directly from Adam, not through Eve. At first the
    sexual roles of Adam and Eve were not fixed. Each produced a seed which was
    was sealed in a jar. Eve’s seed bred creepy-crawly things, but Adam’s
    developed into a boy-child who grew up, married a houri [no word on who
    made her- ed], and fathered the Yazidis.

    As Adam’s seed, they are different from all other peoples. They permit
    marriage only within the sect, and members of each caste of their social
    and religious hierarchy can only marry among themselves.

    They pray five times a day facing the sun. Their holy day is Wednesday, but
    their day of rest is Saturday.

    In 2007,  al-Qaeda suicide bombers drove oil tankers into two Yazidi
    communities near Mosul which they exploded, killing more than 500 and
    injuring about 1,000 more. This sent thousands of Yazidis to the Syrian
    border to seek asylum.

They are safe nowhere in the region. It is unlikely that the sect will survive
the current wars and persecutions in the Middle East.

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Iraq, Islam, jihad, middle east, Muslims, Religion general, Syria
by Jillian Becker on Monday, January 18, 2016

Tagged with IS/ISIS/ISIL, Malak Taus, Mass grave of murdered Yazidis in Syria,
Mohammed Shia al-Sudani, Nima Elgabir, The Peacock Angel, Yazidis

This post has 1 comment.

Permalink

Christian agnosticism 0

Today in our Pages section (see the top of our margin), we post a review by
Jillian Becker of How Jesus Became God by Bart D. Ehrman.

Here is part of it.

*

Bart D. Ehrman’s book How Jesus Became God is a formidable challenge to
Christian belief. It stands to his credit that he pursued his researches to the
point where he changed from a believing Christian into an “agnostic”. (I put
the word in quotation marks because I think the word as applied to religious
belief is a cop-out, an intellectual bromide. If you do not believe there is a
god, whether your unbelief is weak or strong, you are an atheist.)

An enormous amount of what he says fits with what is known and makes good
sense. But in one vital area he goes wrong. He goes wrong because his
perspective is Christian – even though he no longer thought of himself as a
Christian when he came to write the book. He was not able to free himself
sufficiently from the Christian viewpoint because he could not totally shrug
off his Christian indoctrination.

Where is it that he goes wrong? ? He traces the vital beginning of the process
of Jesus becoming God to the first, Jewish, followers of Jesus. That is the
core of his thesis. And, interesting as his book is, generally well-researched
as it is, it fails to make its case; because the author has not understood who
the earliest followers of Jesus were and what they believed about him.

There is convincing evidence that the man whose Greek biographers called by the
name Jesus (and we must call him that for want of knowing what his birth name
was) did exist in the province of Judea between the reigns of Augustus and
Tiberius, and that he was a rabbi with a burning (fanatical, even insanely
fanatical) desire to bring about a new Kingdom of God, like the one he and his
nation believed had been the free and glorious kingdom of David and Solomon. He
prophesied that the “Son of Man” – or the Messiah, the Annointed One – would
come and effect this wonder, and he even came to believe that he was that “Son
of Man”, that Messiah, himself.

Now let’s look at more of the probable story from a non-Christian (and
unbelieving) standpoint.

Jesus’s gesture of attacking some Roman soldiers, along with a couple of his
followers armed with two swords – one of them used to slice off a Roman’s ear –
did not bring the result he expected. He had convinced himself such a move on
his part would be the signal to God to start the series of earth-transforming
miracles that would destroy the Roman Empire and bring back the freedom and
glory of the Jewish people. The Romans arrested him, brought him to a cursory
trial, and condemned him to death by crucifixion – the punishment prescribed
for insurrection by Roman law. The punishment was duly carried out. (As Ehrman
says, the body was probably flung on the ground somewhere to be devoured by
birds and worms and scavenging beasts.)

His little circle of close followers, shocked, terrified, and grieving, fled
from Jerusalem to save their own lives, but returned after a while and were to
be found among the numerous sects and factions of perfectly orthodox Jews who
lived there and carried out their obligations under the law in and to the
Temple. They could not bear to give up their idea that Jesus was the Messiah.
And as he had not succeeded in doing what a Messiah had to do, they trusted
that he would soon return and complete his task. They even sent out
missionaries to preach to dispersed communities of Jews and their hangers-on of
“God fearers” that Jesus was the risen Messiah and he would return in glory to
save the Jewish nation.

Now we come to the tricky bit. Did they then believe that Jesus had come back
to life after his execution? Yes. So to them he was still alive? Yes. Did they
believe that he had suspired not just in spirit, but in his body? Seems very
likely that they did. And this would not have been strange among the Jews of
the time. Every sect and party, every faction and movement, religious and
political,  except one – the Sadducees, the party of the royal priests –
believed in the bodily resurrection of the dead. The general resurrection (the
dogma ran) would occur at the end of days. But Jesus’s resurrection, his
disciples believed, would be sooner than that – very soon. And they might well
have pictured him returning in clouds of glory, descending from the sky and
instantly causing the political liberation and resultant spiritual renewal of
Israel.

Did they then believe that he was, or became after his death, or perhaps had
always been God, or a god, or “the [unique] Son of God” – no. If they had
believed any of that they would no longer have been Jews. But doesn’t the idea
of his return in clouds of glory and descending from the sky imply divinity?
Yes. And Ehrman argues well that there was precedent in the Jewish religious
annals for an orthodox belief that (a) there were beings other than God himself
in the divine sphere who were thus themselves divine – angels, seraphim,
cherubim; and (b) that men had been raised to the sphere of divinity and – it
could be argued – shared in the aura of the divine. It is even true that the
Hebrew word for God – Elohim – is a plural. And that Psalm 82 speaks of
creatures on earth being “gods”. He cites the (apocryphal) books of Enoch and
The Wisdom of Solomon for the strongest evidence to support his contention
that, while Jehovah was believed by the Jews to be the chief God, there were
many lesser gods in Jewish scriptures.

Fine. But now we come back to what the followers of Jesus believed. First of
all, who were they? At one point Ehrman calls them “illiterate peasants”. Well
there he is probably wrong. For one thing, Jewish boys (most if not absolutely
all) were taught to read so that they could read aloud a portion of the law
when they turned thirteen. Secondly, there is nothing to say that either Jesus
or his followers were uneducated men or even poor men. (The Christian tradition
that Jesus was a carpenter and the apparent son of a carpenter has no basis in
any discoverable historical fact. The family could have been well-to-do. There
were means to support him as a rabbi – a voluntary teacher of the law – in his
last year or two.) The disciple Matthew (not to be confused with the name
attached to one of the gospels) was certainly literate, being a tax collector.

If Ehrman is right that they were mostly illiterate peasants, then the chance
that they would have known anything of the apocryphal books of Enoch are
remote, and virtually nil that they could have known of The Wisdom of Solomon –
written in Greek – or the works of their contemporary Philo of Alexandria in
Egypt.

And even if they were literate, as they almost certainly were, they were not
scholars or theologians. There is no way they would have been able to argue for
the existence of lesser gods, even if they knew Psalm 82 off by heart. They
would have been taught that “God is One” – the central tenet of Judaism. So
Ehrman’s sophisticated arguments from esoteric and academic sources for the
possibility that they could believe Jesus was or became a god, are inapplicable
to them. …

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Articles, Atheism, Christianity, History, Judaism by Jillian
Becker on Sunday, January 17, 2016

Tagged with Bart D. Ehrman, Christian beginnings

This post has 0 comments.

Permalink

Odor Cologne 1

Angered by the rape of hundreds of victims by gangs of Muslims in Cologne and
other European cities, Pat Condell speaks out about Europe’s betrayal of women
in this new video:

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Demography, Europe, Germany, immigration, Islam, Muslims, Videos
by Jillian Becker on Saturday, January 16, 2016

Tagged with Muslim mass rape in Cologne, Pat Condell

This post has 1 comment.

Permalink

The weakening of America 1

Something fishy in the Arabian Gulf:

    There is something fishy about how such a high-tech U.S. craft can “stray
    accidentally into Iranian waters due to a navigation error”, as Defense
    Secretary Ash Carter described it on Thursday to Univision. The Pentagon
    had previously claimed engine trouble for an incident that’s humiliated the
    U.S., as Iranian video showed to the world 10 American sailors on their
    knees at gunpoint.

iran-EDIT1-011316_345.jpg

From Investor’s Business Daily:

    How can an advanced, ultra-agile U.S. combat boat suffer a “navigation
    error” that leads to a terrorist state capturing its sailors? Tehran just
    revealed military ineptitude warranting a congressional probe.

    The Swedish-designed Combat Boat 90 can make the sharpest of turns at high
    speed, stop nearly on a dime, maneuver like magic and, with its Rolls-Royce
    jet-propulsion system, can speed along at over 45 miles an hour in rivers
    and shallow coastlines while transporting 18 amphibious troops.

    But what good is any of that if it falls into enemy hands? …

    A retired operations commander for the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet in Bahrain,
    Christopher Harmer, told CNN the capture constituted “a severe failure”,
     charging that “either the naval leadership put these sailors in an
    impossible situation, or the sailors are professionally incompetent”.
    Harmer has researched the increased lethality of Iran’s submarine fleet for
    the Institute for the Study of War.

    That one of the sailors would appear in an Iranian video apologizing may
    have actually violated the military’s Code of Conduct, which requires that
    a detainee give name, rank, serial number and age, but “evade answering
    further questions” and “make no oral or written statements disloyal” to his
    country “and its allies or harmful to their cause”.

    Harmer told the Washington Times, “The U.S. Navy looks extraordinarily
    incompetent. … In its ability to transit boats without violating Iranian
    waters, they look incompetent to know how to deal with a mechanical
    malfunction, and now that they’ve been taken into custody, they’re
    apologizing.”

    Harmer told CNN there was “no reason for a small vessel to be out that far
    and especially without escorting ships around it”, and “the Navy has to
    explain why you have small ships transiting 300 miles of open ocean”.

    Iran claims its Revolutionary Guard Corps seized the CB90’s GPS gear and
    that it revealed U.S. espionage. As reported in Defense News, House Armed
    Services Committee member Duncan Hunter, R-Calif., a Marine who served in
    the Iraq War, claimed there was no way the Iran military “didn’t reverse
    engineer, or look at and copy everything that they possibly could” of the
    two commandeered boats’ high-tech equipment.

    In the midst of this disaster did Secretary of State John Kerry make
    another bad deal with Tehran, following last year’s nuclear pact, to get
    the sailors released swiftly?

    All of this warrants a high-profile congressional investigation. Sailors
    and valuable equipment get captured, are humiliated on video, and finally
    one ends up making a statement that serves terrorist propaganda purposes.

    “Semper Fortis” — always strong [an unofficial motto of the US Navy] —
    hardly describes what this incident reveals about the U.S. Navy after seven
    years of Barack Obama.

When the captured crews were released the next morning, the two boats sailed
away with no sign of  “mechanical failure”. Had both boats been afflicted with
it? Had it been hard or easy to repair? Who repaired it?

Here is more editorial comment from IBD:

    Ten U.S. sailors kneel at gunpoint before Iran’s military, then actually
    apologize, and while held captive, merit no mention in the president’s
    speech to Congress. It’s American weakness illustrated.

    We don’t yet have the full facts on how a U.S. naval vessel was allowed to
    be seized by the world’s foremost terrorist state. But as Desert Storm
    infantry commander Gen. Barry McCaffrey (ret.) warned in an
    NBC News interview, “this is an affront to our military presence in the
    Gulf and will unsettle our allies in the region.” …

    Images can hurt a global power profoundly. … For Iran, images of U.S.
    sailors kneeling in submission, and video of one apologizing on behalf of
    the rest — and, by extension, on behalf of the U.S. — are priceless.

    “It was our fault,” the sailor said on camera. “And we apologize for our
    mistake.”

    What a comparison with the tortured crew of the U.S.S. Pueblo, captured by
    North Korea in 1968, who during their captivity discreetly extended their
    middle fingers when posing for propaganda photos.

    Today, Secretary of State John Kerry says, “I want to express my gratitude
    to Iranian authorities. …”

Gratitude!

    As Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., said, “Before we thank the Iranian naval forces
    and attempt to defend and normalize their behavior, as Vice President Biden
    and Secretaries Kerry and Carter appear inclined to do, we should demand
    answers” to questions that include:

    “Where exactly were the sailors intercepted? Why were they detained instead
    of being merely escorted into international waters? What was the nature of
    the technical malfunctions on both vessels? … Was sensitive equipment
    compromised? (and) Why were the sailors not permitted to contact U.S.
    higher headquarters in the region for the 16 hours they were detained?”

    Cotton also noted that the administration presumes that Iran conducted a
    rescue mission, “when Iran has characterized the incident as U.S. ships
    trespassing into its waters and ‘snooping’.”

    He added: “Our sailors never should have been detained in the first place,
    and blithely accepting such action will only embolden the ayatollahs who
    wish to do harm to Americans and our allies in the Arabian Gulf.”

    This humiliation of the U.S. comes less than a week before we lift
    sanctions unfreezing $150 billion for new terrorist activities, as promised
    in Obama and Kerry’s Iran nuclear deal — a pact that Tehran has not even
    been required to sign.

    Our sailors were held as Obama stood before Congress on Tuesday night, but
    they weren’t deemed worthy of mention in the president’s [State of the
    Union] address.

He could have included among his otherwise untrue boasts one that is
outrageously true: that he has achieved something he always said he wanted to
achieve – the weakening of America.

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Commentary, Defense, Diplomacy, Iran, Islam, jihad, middle east,
Muslims, United States by Jillian Becker on Friday, January 15, 2016

Tagged with Christopher Harmer, Defense Secretary Carter, Gen. Barry McCaffrey,
Iran captures US sailors, Rep. Duncan Hunter, Secretary of State Kerry, The
weakening of America

This post has 1 comment.

Permalink

New York submits 3

New York City submits to Islam.

This is from an article by Benjamin Weingarten at the excellent City Journal:

    As part of a recently announced legal settlement with representatives of
    the Muslim community, the NYPD has agreed to purge materials critical to
    understanding the threat to New York City from domestic Islamic terrorism.

    The plaintiffs in Raza v. City of New York and Handschu v. Special Services
    Division charged that the NYPD had targeted Muslims for surveillance solely
    because of their religious affiliation. Among other things, the settlement
    stipulates that the NYPD must remove from its website a comprehensive 2007
    report authored by senior analysts Mitchell D. Silber and Arvin Bhatt.

    Radicalization in the West identified homegrown Islamic terrorism as the
    primary extremist threat to New York City. As then-police commissioner Ray
    Kelly noted in a preface, the report’s aim was to assist policymakers and
    law enforcement officials around the country by providing a thorough
    understanding of the danger posed by domestic terrorists. It also sought to
    help intelligence and law enforcement agencies better understand the
    radicalization process. Based on a rigorous analysis of almost a dozen
    jihadist plots across the U.S. and Europe, the report identified the
    enemy’s ideology on its own terms. The report didn’t say that jihadism had
    nothing to do with Islam; nor did it suggest that Islam was a “religion of
    peace”. Its sole concern was assessing the jihadist threat, not undertaking
    an Islamic exegesis.

    From the day the report was released, Muslim groups pounced. “By afternoon,
    American-Muslim organizations had issued press releases criticizing the
    report,” Time noted in 2007. “The Council on American-Islamic Relations
    said it cast suspicion on all U.S. Muslims, even though the report
    repeatedly stresses that there is no obvious way to profile would-be
    terrorists.” What did they find so objectionable? According to the
    complaint filed in Raza, the report provided the “analytic underpinnings”
    for the NYPD’s Muslim Surveillance Program. The plaintiffs asserted that
    the program “stigmatizes an entire faith community and invites
    discrimination. It specifically singles out Muslims for profiling and
    suspicionless surveillance because of their religious beliefs and
    practices”.  The Raza plaintiffs sought to have the program shut down,
    arguing that it operated on “a false and unconstitutional premise: that
    Muslim religious belief and practices are a basis for law enforcement
    scrutiny”.

They are, of course.

    Now, the NYPD has agreed not only to remove Silber and Bhatt’s report from
    its website, but the terms of the settlement also require the NYPD to
    assert that it does not, has not, and will not rely upon the report to open
    or extend investigations.

    Within 24 hours of the settlement, however, events conspired to underscore
    the danger it potentially presents. In Philadelphia, a self-identified
    jihadist attempted to assassinate a policeman. Edward Archer fired 13 shots
    at Officer Jesse Hartnett, striking him with three. Archer reportedly told
    investigators while in custody that he “follows Allah, and that is the
    reason he was called upon to do this”. Further, according to Philadelphia
    police captain Richard Ross, Archer “believed that the police defend laws
    that are contrary to the teachings of the Quran”. In 2012, Archer allegedly
    traveled to and spent several months in Egypt. According to his mother, he
    was a devout Muslim who had practiced the faith for an extended period of
    time. Despite Archer’s words and actions, and the reports of Philadelphia
    law enforcement officers involved in the investigation, the city’s mayor
    [Jim Kenney] declared during a press conference, “In no way, shape or form
    does anyone in this room believe that Islam or the teaching of Islam has
    anything to do with what you’ve seen on the screen.”

    Tragic as it nearly was, the Philadelphia shooting couldn’t have been
    timelier. Archer fits the exact profile that Silber and Bhatt sketched in
    their report — as do most examples in recent memory of American jihadists.

    Religious ideology is not incidental to jihad; it’s central. For Islamists,
    jihad is an intrinsic part of a pious Muslim’s religious duties. All
    Muslims are not jihadists, but all jihadists are self-identified Muslims.

Well, it might be more accurate to say every Muslim if true to the commands of
his faith is a jihadi, though not necessarily a violent one.

    Yet, New York mayor Bill de Blasio appears willing to pursue the
    see-no-Islam policy preferred by Philadelphia’s mayor. And, according to a
    2013 report from Judicial Watch, a similar purge of materials linking
    Islamic ideology to jihad has already occurred at the federal level, with
    apparently disastrous consequences, given the mushrooming domestic jihadist
    threat.

    More than any other area of government, national security and defense must
    be insulated from political correctness. To remove analyses that might give
    us insight into our enemies represents a dereliction of duty by our
    political representatives. Political correctness can and will get Americans
    killed. If we are to defeat the threat from Islamic terrorism, we must
    dispense with euphemisms, take off our blinders, and see our enemy clearly.

Sheer common sense. So what possible reason can there be for the federal
government – from which the lesser powers in the land take their cue – to “
purge materials linking Islamic ideology to jihad”? 

We can think of no reason other than that the Obama administration is on the
side of the violent jihadis. If it is not that, there can only be excuses such
as unpardonably deliberate ignorance, or disqualifying stupidity, or
certifiable insanity.

Share this:

  • Email
  • 
  • Print
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • 
  • Share on Tumblr
  • Pocket
  • [pinit_fg_e]
  • 

Like this:

Like Loading...

Posted under Commentary, Defense, Ethics, Islam, jihad, Law, Leftism, Muslims,
United States by Jillian Becker on Thursday, January 14, 2016

Tagged with Arvin Bhatt., Benjamin Weingarten, Edward Archer, Mayor Bill de
Blasio, Mayor Jim Kenney, Mitchell D. Silber, Police captain Richard Ross

This post has 3 comments.

Permalink
Older Posts >>
Search for: [                    ] [Search]
Pages

  • About us
  • Articles of Reason
  • Communism is Secular Christianity
  • Review: Capital in the Twenty-First Century: The “Savior of Socialism”
    Proves the Worth of Capitalism
  • Review: God Is Not Great
  • Review: Godless: The Church of Liberalism
  • Review: How Jesus Became God
  • Review: The God Delusion
  • Review: Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion.
  • The Birth and Early History of Christianity
  • The Darkness of This World (Part 1)
  • The Darkness of This World (Part 2)
  • The Darkness of This World (Part 3)
  • The Envy of Suffering
  • The Last Lecture: a satire

Hitler’s Children: The Story of the Baader-Meinhof Terrorist Gang

A new edition of Jillian Becker's famous book Hitler's Children: The Story of
the Baader-Meinhof Terrorist Gang has been published as an ebook. Find it now
at Amazon.

[51DvXtJVOC]

Our Facebook

Recent Comments

  • liz on The evidence against her
  • liz on A hell-hag as leader and role model?
  • Cogito on A hell-hag as leader and role model?
  • The Atheist Conservative: >> A hell-hag as leader and role model? on
    Touched by the Clintons
  • The Atheist Conservative: >> A hell-hag as leader and role model? on
    Obama’s Nigerian candidate wins
  • Azgael on Hillary Clinton: ready for the big house?
  • liz on Hillary Clinton: ready for the big house?
  • Animal on Hillary Clinton: ready for the big house?
  • Mike on Hillary Clinton: ready for the big house?
  • liz on Britain submits

Our Directories

The Atheist Conservative at Blogged

Online Courses.net
Atheistic and Agnostic Blogs

[SC-Main-Lo]

Thousands of Deadly Islamic Terror Attacks Since 9/11

Blogroll

  • Atheist Revolution
  • Atheistinfo
  • Conservative Humanist Association
  • Conservative Tendency
  • conservativeatheist.com
  • DailyKenn.com
  • Ethical Atheism
  • Front Page Magazine
  • Further Adventures of Indigo Red
  • Handbook for Infidels
  • Investor's Business Daily
  • Moral Compass
  • NeoConstant
  • Online PhD Programs
  • Op-Ed
  • PJ Media
  • Power Line
  • RadioFreeWisconsin
  • Respvblica
  • Secular Conservative
  • Secular Right
  • The Freedom Association
  • The Heathen Republican
  • The Spirit of Man
  • Thunder Tales
  • Watchdog Community

Archives

  • January 2016
  • December 2015
  • November 2015
  • October 2015
  • September 2015
  • August 2015
  • July 2015
  • June 2015
  • May 2015
  • April 2015
  • March 2015
  • February 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • November 2014
  • October 2014
  • September 2014
  • August 2014
  • July 2014
  • June 2014
  • May 2014
  • April 2014
  • March 2014
  • February 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • September 2013
  • August 2013
  • July 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • March 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • December 2012
  • November 2012
  • October 2012
  • September 2012
  • August 2012
  • July 2012
  • June 2012
  • May 2012
  • April 2012
  • March 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • December 2011
  • November 2011
  • October 2011
  • September 2011
  • August 2011
  • July 2011
  • June 2011
  • May 2011
  • April 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011
  • January 2011
  • December 2010
  • November 2010
  • October 2010
  • September 2010
  • August 2010
  • July 2010
  • June 2010
  • May 2010
  • April 2010
  • March 2010
  • February 2010
  • January 2010
  • December 2009
  • November 2009
  • October 2009
  • September 2009
  • August 2009
  • July 2009
  • June 2009
  • May 2009
  • April 2009
  • March 2009
  • February 2009
  • January 2009
  • December 2008
  • November 2008
  • October 2008
  • September 2008
  • August 2008
  • July 2008
  • June 2008
  • May 2008

Categories

  • Afghanistan
  • Africa
  • agriculture
  • America
  • Anarchy
  • Anti-Semitism
  • Arab States
  • Art
  • Articles
  • Asia
  • Atheism
  • Australia
  • Austria
  • Balkans
  • Bangladesh
  • Belgium
  • Brazil
  • Britain
  • Buddhism
  • Canada
  • Capitalism
  • cartoons
  • Charity
  • Chile
  • China
  • Christianity
  • Civil war
  • Climate
  • Collectivism
  • Comedy
  • Commentary
  • communism
  • Congo
  • Conservatism
  • corruption
  • Cosmology
  • Crime
  • Cuba
  • Czech Republic
  • Defense
  • Demography
  • Diplomacy
  • Eastern Europe
  • Economics
  • education
  • Egypt
  • Energy
  • Environmentalism
  • Ethics
  • Europe
  • Feminism
  • food
  • France
  • genocide
  • Germany
  • Gnosticism
  • government
  • Greece
  • Health
  • Hinduism
  • History
  • Humor
  • immigration
  • India
  • Indonesia
  • Industry
  • Innovation
  • Iran
  • Iraq
  • Islam
  • Israel
  • Italy
  • Japan
  • jihad
  • Jordan
  • Judaism
  • Latin America
  • Law
  • Lebanon
  • Leftism
  • liberalism
  • Libertarianism
  • liberty
  • Libya
  • Literature
  • Marxism
  • media
  • Mexico
  • middle east
  • Miscellaneous
  • Muslims
  • Mysticism
  • nationalism
  • NATO
  • nazism
  • Netherlands
  • News
  • Nigeria
  • North Korea
  • Norway
  • Pacifism
  • Pakistan
  • Palestinians
  • Philosophy
  • Progressivism
  • Race
  • Refugees
  • Religion general
  • Reviews
  • revolution
  • Russia
  • satire
  • Saudi Arabia
  • Science
  • Sex
  • Slavery
  • Socialism
  • Somalia
  • South Africa
  • South America
  • Soviet Union
  • Spain
  • Sudan
  • Superstition
  • Sweden
  • Syria
  • Technology
  • Terrorism
  • Theology
  • Totalitarianism
  • trade unions
  • Treason
  • Turkey
  • tyranny
  • Uganda
  • Uncategorized
  • United Kingdom
  • United Nations
  • United States
  • US Constitution
  • Venezuela
  • Videos
  • Vietnam
  • War
  • world government
  • Yemen

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

jbeckeratheist

jbeckeratheist

View Full Profile →


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The Atheist Conservative

  • Copyright (C) 2016

Send to Email Address Your Name [                    ] Your Email Address 
loading [Send Email] Cancel
Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
%d bloggers like this:

