Heterodoxos, official mascot of Matt     Header for Matt Wallace's The Compleat
Wallace's The Compleat Heretic, the      Heretic, the personal website of an
personal website of an economic and      economic and social conservative,
social conservative, Republican,         Republican, Teamsters union member,
Teamsters union member, moral            moral traditionalist, pro-life, U.S.
traditionalist, pro-life, U.S. Army      Army veteran, NRA Benefactor Life
veteran, NRA Benefactor Life Member,     Member, Secular Humanist atheist
Secular Humanist atheist
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   | Homepage | What's New | Autobiography | Publications | Affiliations | 
                 Gratifications | Irritations | Photo Album |
    | Websurfing Safari | Hate Mail | Connections | Trophy Case | Mascot | 
                         Guestbook Central | E-mail |
           | Site Map | Site Index | Search Engine | Express Lane |
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                        The Compleat Heretic's Homepage

                This site was last modified on 13 January 2016.

Contents
*
Site Introduction
*
Site Contents
*
Site Navigation
*
Privacy Policy
*
COPPA Notice
*
Copyright Notice
*
Badges

    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Site Introduction

Welcome to my contribution to the World Wide Web. I started this site on the
UNCG server as a single page which I created one evening in March 1997 while
fooling around with something called HTML which I edited directly on the server
using an odd little text editor called Pico. The page consisted of three lines
of text each containing only a single bit of information: my name, a brief
self-description, and my e-mail address. I soon expanded this simple page to
form "the first incarnation" of a legitimate site by turning it into a homepage
and adding my letters to the editor and newspaper columns indexed on a
Publications page. And most importantly, I gave my website a name: Matt
Wallace's The Compleat Heretic. (I retain a hard copy, dated 3/27/97, of this
version in a folder labeled "Compleat Heretic v.1 (UNCG)" in my filing
cabinet.) After the site went off-line when the university purged former
student accounts from their server in November 1997, I restored it by joining
GeoCities on 13 January 1998. I moved the site onto its own domain on 4
September 1999 after realizing I was seriously committed to the relationship.
Judging by the "What's New" Archives, I seem to have been constantly modifying
and hopefully improving it as I gained more experience and knowledge as a
webmaster, but then it has always had a life of its own like all good websites
should. (Why am I suddenly thinking of that Steve McQueen movie, The Blob!?) I
consider it an obligation and a privilege to provide an interesting,
informative, and user-friendly website. I hope you'll check in on me often.

I'm James Matthew Wallace, or more commonly, Matt to my family and friends, and
a variety of epithets to my enemies. In case you didn't come in through my
introduction page or missed the header at the top of every other page on the
site, I'm "an economic and social conservative, Republican, Teamsters union
member, moral traditionalist, pro-life, U.S. Army veteran, NRA Benefactor Life
Member, Secular Humanist atheist" which is why I adopted the cyberidentity and
cybernym of "The Compleat Heretic." That's "Compleat" as in "highly
proficient," and "Heretic" as in "one who dissents from an accepted belief or
doctrine." I consider myself to be both an economic and cultural conservative;
that is, a free-market capitalist and a moral traditionalist. The religious
right types and "ordinary" conservatives can't quite comprehend my atheism
which they reflexively view as a manifestation of leftism. The atheists can't
understand my cultural conservatism which they reflexively view as "just
religious beliefs" when espoused by the religious right. I'm rather adept at
committing heresy regardless of affiliations. If I've piqued your interest and
you wish to learn more about me, please explore my site at your leisure.

Let's come to an understanding right from the start. This is a personal
website; that is, it is about me: who I am, what I do, what I think, etc. I
created this site to inform others about myself and to aid me in my neverending
quest to discover my self. Fortunately, I'm rather interesting subject matter.
Also, never forget that I am extremely opinionated and that my opinions are the
result of rational analysis and my innate contrariness. I have always sought to
comprehend things, and I have always heard the beat of my own drummer very
loudly and most clearly. Given this and the expansiveness of my personality, I
am confident that you will find something in these web pages that will either
delight and amuse you or shock and offend you, and probably a combination of
the two. If not, wait for it! Finally, enjoy!

Return to Contents

    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Site Contents

   What's New:     To see what I've piddled with recently, check out what's new
 Updates to this   .
      site

 Autobiography:    To learn more about me, check out my autobiography.
 More about the    For "just the facts," check out my vital statistics.
    webmaster

 My writings of    To read some of my writings, check out my publications.
  various types

Organizations to   To see organizations to which I belong, check out my
 which I belong    affiliations.

  Things I love    To learn about some of my favorite things, check out my
                   gratifications.

  Things I hate    To learn about some of the things I despise, check out my
                   irritations.

   Obligatory      To see some of the things I've seen, check out my photo
   photograph      album.
   collections     To see how I look and looked, check out my personal photos.

 My reactions to   To see my reactions to other websites, check out my
   other sites     websurfing safari.

   Overwrought     To see overwrought reactions to this site, check out my hate
reactions to this  mail.
      site

Obligatory links   For the obligatory links, check out my connections.
 to other sites

 Awards received   To view this site's web awards, check out my trophy case.
  by this site

     My owl,       My owl, Heterodoxos, is my official website mascot.
   Heterodoxos

 Sign/View this    To sign or to read my guestbook, refer to my guestbook
site's guestbook   central.

Communicate with   To write to the webmaster, direct comments to The Compleat
  the webmaster    Heretic.

Return to Contents

    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Site Navigation

 Outline of this   For an outline of the structure of this website, pull out
site's structure   the site map.

 Topical listing
 by alphabet of    For a particular subject, perhaps you can find it in the
   this site's     site index.
    contents

   Search this     Perhaps you can find what you're looking for with my local
 site's contents   search engine.

 Listing of web
  rings on this    Find your way back to a web ring by taking my express lane.
      site

Return to Contents

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Privacy Policy:
*
I collect and disseminate personal information within the context of this site.
*
Submission of any online form on this site or sending an e-mail message to me
creates the possibility of my posting that information to this site in some
manner.
*
Furthermore, I may augment such information with data from my access logs as I
deem appropriate and necessary; abusive communications especially are subject
to this treatment.
*
Absent communication with me or suspected criminal activity, visitor activity
on this site is unmonitored.

Return to Contents

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

COPPA Notice:
*
Matt Wallace's The Compleat Heretic is the personal website of a middle-aged
man in which he shares some portion of his life and thoughts. As a result, it
primarily deals with the mature discussion of a variety of philosophical,
religious, artistic, social, and political issues; the tone of this discussion
ranges from scholarly and intellectual to informal and casual (including
suggestive or even vulgar at times) depending on rhetorical form and subject
matter. Consequently, this site is directed towards adults and adolescents.
*
Even though my intended audience specifically excludes children, thus exempting
me from the provisions of the Children s On-line Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)
, I will make a good faith effort to comply with this law. Accordingly,
children under the age of 13 are not permitted to communicate with me without
parental consent. Absent evidence to the contrary, submission of any online
form on this site or sending an e-mail message to me implies that the sender is
either of age and not covered by COPPA or is doing so under parental
supervision; in both cases, the sender is granting me permission to use the
communication in accordance with my Privacy Policy as described above. If a
child's personal information should be posted on this site without parental
consent in violation of my policy, that child's parents are responsible for
informing me of this violation. Upon such notification, I will remove the
child's information upon the next site update.

Return to Contents

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Copyright Notice:
*
Unless otherwise indicated, all contents of this website are copyright © 1997,
1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010,
2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 by James Matthew Wallace. All rights
reserved.
*
Additionally, being the devil who quotes Scripture for his own devices, and
with some regularity at that, and in due recognition of the intellectual
property rights of my fellow artists, with deepest gratitude and respect, I
hereby make the following publisher's required notice of copyright: "Scripture
taken from the HOLY BIBLE, NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION. Copyright © 1973, 1978,
1984 International Bible Society. Used by permission of Zondervan Bible
Publishers."

Return to Contents

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Timelines Future Minded  Time Award: 17 Years  Time Award Sapphire Member, 15+
Website                  Online                Years Online

  Member of The     Barack 'The Joke' Obama, Our  Proud Member of the Vast
  Net Atheists      Worst President               Right-wing Conspiracy

National Coalition for Life    Pro-Lifers Against Clinic    Writers Against
and Peace                      Violence                     Violence

Electronic Frontier Foundation - Blue Ribbon Campaign - Support Free Speech
Online!

Return to Contents

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   | Homepage | What's New | Autobiography | Publications | Affiliations | 
                 Gratifications | Irritations | Photo Album |
    | Websurfing Safari | Hate Mail | Connections | Trophy Case | Mascot | 
                         Guestbook Central | E-mail |
           | Site Map | Site Index | Search Engine | Express Lane |
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                         This site is SafeSurf rated.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Hosted by DreamHost:     Matt Wallace's The Compleat Heretic is reliably hosted
Imagine the Web, Your    by DreamHost!
Way                      Why not DreamHost your site, too?

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
          This page has been visited counter times since 1 June 2012.
                                       *
(From 4 September 1999 to 31 May 2012, the counter tallied 31,805 visits prior
                          to resetting inexplicably.)
                                       *

