skip navigation

Library of Congress

Exhibitions

Library of Congress

  • Ask a Librarian
  • Digital Collections
  • Library Catalogs

Search
GO
The Library of Congress > Exhibitions > Religion and the Founding of the
American Republic
Exhibitions
Exhibitions Image
[                    ] [GO]
  • Exhibitions Home
  • Current Exhibitions
  • All Exhibitions
  • Programs & Events
  • Traveling Exhibitions
  • Loan Procedures for Institutions
  • Special Presentations
  • Contact Us

Religion and the Founding of the American Republic
Exhibition Home

[religion_banner]
Home | Overview | Exhibition Items | Public Programs | Acknowledgments
Sections: America as a Religious Refuge: The Seventeenth Century | Religion in
Eighteenth-Century America | Religion and the American Revolution | Religion
and the Congress of the Confederation, 1774-89 | Religion and the State
Governments | Religion and the Federal Government | Religion and the New
Republic

This exhibition demonstrates that many of the colonies that in 1776 became the
United States of America were settled by men and women of deep religious
convictions who in the seventeenth century crossed the Atlantic Ocean to
practice their faith freely. That the religious intensity of the original
settlers would diminish to some extent over time was perhaps to be expected,
but new waves of eighteenth century immigrants brought their own religious
fervor across the Atlantic and the nation's first major religious revival in
the middle of the eighteenth century injected new vigor into American religion.
The result was that a religious people rose in rebellion against Great Britain
in 1776, and that most American statesmen, when they began to form new
governments at the state and national levels, shared the convictions of most of
their constituents that religion was, to quote Alexis de Tocqueville's
observation, indispensable to the maintenance of republican institutions. The
efforts of the Founders of the American nation to define the role of religious
faith in public life and the degree to which it could be supported by public
officials that was not inconsistent with the revolutionary imperatives of the
equality and freedom of all citizens is the central question which this
exhibition explores.

[discover-b] Connecting Kids: You can continue to enjoy the richness of the
Library's collections by going to this suggested link that will be of special
interest to kids and families!

A Century of Lawmaking for a New Nation

Connect with the Library

All ways to connect

Find Us On

Pinterest   Facebook   Twitter   YouTube   Flickr

Subscribe & Comment

  • RSS & E-Mail
  • Blogs

Download & Play

  • Apps
  • Podcasts
  • Webcasts
  • iTunesU (external link)

Questions

  • Ask a Librarian
  • Contact Us

About | Press | Jobs | Donate
Inspector General | Legal | Accessibility | External Link Disclaimer | USA.gov

Speech Enabled
