St. Dunstan's Episcopal Church

St. Dunstan's Episcopal Church

Search
Primary Menu Skip to content

  • Visiting?
      □ Statement of Welcome
      □ Getting Here
      □ Your First Time
      □ What Members Say
      □ What do Episcopalians believe?
      □ Who was St. Dunstan?
      □ Who We Are
      □ A Brief History
      □ Madison Episcopalians
  • Worship
      □ Children in Church
      □ The Sandbox
      □ Eucharist
      □ The Creed
      □ Worship Ministries
  • Outreach
      □ Outreach Mission Statement
      □ About MOM
      □ About IHN
      □ About Bread for the World
  • Our Grounds
      □ Our Labyrinth
      □ Permaculture
      □ The Arboretum
  • Blog
  • Seeking & learning
      □ Sunday School & Youth Group
      □ Evening Church Camp 2015
      □ Fellowship & friendship
      □ The Larger Church
      □ The Calling of Moses
      □ Library
  • People
      □ Our Staff
      □ Sharing Meals
  • Giving
      □ Give Online

Search for: [Search]
Welcome

stdmainGuests, visitors and newcomers are always welcome at worship or any
other parish event! Scroll down to learn more about us. Recent sermons and
announcements are usually posted on this website every week. Check the links
over to the left of this page for recent posts.

If you’re a Facebook user, you can “Like” our church page for a weekly
announcement about the coming Sunday’s worship, Scriptures, and any special
events.

Regular Worship Times

We celebrate the Eucharist on Sundays at 8:00 & 10:00 am. Kids are always
welcome in our worship. Our Sunday school meets on the second Sunday of the
month during the school year, and we have a children’s sermon on the fourth
Sunday of every month. Nursery care is available from 9:45 – 11:30 in the
summer, and from 9am to 11:45am during the school year.

We also gather every Thursday evening at 5:30 for “Sandbox Worship,” a smaller,
more conversation worship service of song, prayer, and Scripture, followed by a
simple supper. Guests and newcomers are always welcome.

Our Mission Statement & Statement of Welcome

Our Mission Statement: In response to Christ’s divine humanity, St. Dunstan’s
strives to seek, love, and serve God, welcoming all to gather in worship, serve
those in need, care for the environment, and listen and respond to each other.

Wondering if you’d be welcome at St. Dunstan’s? In 2012, our Vestry adopted a
Statement of Welcome. The short version? Everybody’s welcome, no exceptions! 
Read the full version here.

A Welcome Message from Rev. Miranda

mirabaptism

If this is your first encounter with St. Dunstan’s, welcome! We hope you will
consider joining us for worship soon. I would love to meet and chat, and to
answer any questions you may have about St. Dunstan’s parish or the Episcopal
Church. You will find we are a warm and lively parish family, with lots of
opportunities for engagement and shared ministry – and an equally warm welcome
for those who simply want a place to worship on Sunday morning, without seeking
more involvement at this time. I am available to make pastoral calls to anyone
who is ill or going through a difficult time – or to have coffee with someone
who’s struggling to make sense of it all – or to share conversation and prayer
with someone seeking God’s guidance in their life – or to get down on the floor
and talk about Jesus with kids. Please be in touch, and let’s explore where our
mission as a parish connects with your life, your needs and your hopes. May the
grace, love and fellowship of God be with you always.

Rev. Miranda+

6205 University Ave., Madison WI

Where We Are

6205 University Ave.
Madison, WI 53705
(608) 238-2781

Sunday Worship at 8 & 10am
Thursday Dinner Church at 5:30pm

Recent Posts

  • Sermon, Jan. 10
  • Announcements, January 7
  • Honoring the Holy Innocents
  • Sermon, January 3
  • Announcements, December 30

Categories

[Select Category]

Archives

  • January 2016
  • December 2015
  • November 2015
  • October 2015
  • September 2015
  • August 2015
  • July 2015
  • June 2015
  • May 2015
  • April 2015
  • March 2015
  • February 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • November 2014
  • October 2014
  • September 2014

Meta

  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.org

Proudly powered by WordPress
