[palgrave_l] www.palgrave.com
 
 
Loading..
Your cart is empty.

...you'll find more products in the shopping cart.
Total€239.99
View cart
Login / Register

  • Login

[                    ]
  • Subjects
      □ Business, Economics & Law
      □ Humanities
      □ Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
      □ Social Sciences
      □ Social Work, Counselling, Nursing & Health
      □ Study Skills
  • Publishing With Us
      □ Why Publish With Us
      □ Submit a Proposal
      □ The Publishing Process
      □ After Publication

Our history

line

1843

[v1]             [v2]                [v3]                [v3]
Daniel Macmillan Alexander Macmillan The Three Questions Interior Spread

The founders of Macmillan Publishers, brothers Daniel and Alexander Macmillan,
started trading at 57 Aldersgate St., London and published their first two
books: The Philosophy of Training by A R Craig and The Three Questions: What am
I? Whence Came I? Whither do I Go? by William Haig Miller. They then moved the
business to Cambridge where they were based until 1863.

line

July 1861

[v2]

Macmillan published The Golden Treasury of the Best Songs & Lyrical Poems in
the English Language edited by Palgrave Macmillan namesake Francis Turner
Palgrave, which became one of the best loved poetry anthologies of all time.

line

20th January 1864

[v2]

The first edition of The Statesman's Yearbook, a one-volume reference book
providing information on the countries of the world, was published in 1864. The
Yearbook has just celebrated its 150th anniversary.

line

1869

[v3]

Macmillan began to expand internationally, opening an office in New York,
initially in Bleecker St, and growing from there.

line

1899

[v2]

Completion of Palgrave's Dictionary of Political Economy by R. H. Inglis
Palgrave (brother of Francis Turner Palgrave), the definitive scholarly
reference work for generations of economists.

line

1916

[v2]

From 1916 Macmillan published all of W. B. Yeats’ work, as well as countless
works of criticism and biography, some of which are still in print today.

line

1936

[v2]

Palgrave Macmillan published The General Theory of Employment, Interest and
Money by John Maynard Keynes. The book is widely considered to have created the
terminology and shape of modern macroeconomics.

line

1968

[v2]

Launch of the Casebook series brought together the best in modern criticism on
classic of English Literature.

line

1970

[v2]

First publication of the ever-popular textbook Engineering Mathematics by KA
Stroud (now in its 7th edition). Stroud's unique methodology revolutionised how
engineering mathematics was taught, and helped to build the skills and
confidence of thousands of students worldwide.

line

1972

[v2]

The first edition of Thirlwall's Growth and Development was published in 1972.

line

1982

[v2]

Launch of the highly successful Master / Mastering Series catering for the
needs of students and self-educators across the world. Each book in this series
is a self-contained course, providing support for every student from first
principles to examination level.

line

1989

[v2]

BASW Practical Social Work series launched, edited by Jo Campling. This series
has been a key landmark in social work publishing for well over 20 years,
featuring innovative thinking and trustworthy guidance. It has rooted itself in
teaching and practice for generations of social work students and
professionals.

line

1990

[v2]

Publication of Michael Porter's The Competitive Advantage of Nations. Spanning
economics, international political economy and business, the core ideas remain
very relevant today.

line

1992

[v2]

Macmillan published their first books with CDs: Breakthrough French,
Breakthrough German, and Breakthrough Spanish. This new CD format helped those
on adult education courses and self-educators to learn languages in a more
authentic, lively, and conversational way.

line

1994

[v2]


First publication of Human Resource Management by Bratton & Gold. Now in its
5th edition, this popular book continues to help professionals and students to
understand the context of the ever-changing contemporary workplace and the
importance of human resource management within it.

line

12th August 1999

[v2]

First publication of the best-selling title The Study Skills Handbook by Stella
Cottrell. This book has helped many thousands of students to succeed in their
studies through the discovery and development of their own personal learning
styles. It is the UK's bestselling textbook in any subject.

line

1st September 2000

[v2]

Palgrave, Macmillan's global academic publishing brand launched in 2000. This
new division was created through the integration of Macmillan Press and St
Martin's Press Scholarly and Reference. The name Palgrave is derived from the
Palgrave family, who had a long association with publishing and with the
highest levels of achievement in humanities and the social sciences. The name
changed to Palgrave Macmillan in 2002, fully representing the rich heritage of
the company.

line

2000

[v2]

An electronic sampler, the Palgrave eReader was launched in September 2000.
This offered sample chapters from a range of new and forthcoming books.

line

2000

[v3]

In 2000 we launched Palgrave Journals which continues to publish journals in
the business, humanities and social sciences, from the Journal of the
Operational Research Society to Feminist Review.

line

2001

[v3]

Palgrave published its first eBook which was Knowledge Unplugged, McKinsey &
Company's global survey on knowledge management. It was made available on Palm
Pilot in August 2001.

line

November 2001

[v2]

Production of 1000th Print on Demand title: Volume 1 of Socialism in One
Country by E. H. Carr

line

2005

[v2]

Launch of the popular science series, Macmillan Science, featuring books such
as Climate Change Begins at Home (a global wake-up call) and Lonesome George
(the story of a conservation icon). Macmillan Science brings together the best
science writers in the world to showcase groundbreaking research and take on
some of the biggest ideas and subjects in popular science today.

line

April 2007

[v2]

A new edition of The Complete Works of Shakespeare, edited by Jonathan Bate and
Eric Rasmussen, was launched to critical acclaim. By the end of 2007, this book
had sold 50,000 copies and won the British Book Design and Production Award
(2007).

line

2008

[v2]

Launch of The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, 2nd edition, now in print
and online versions for a whole new generation of economists.

line

2008

[v2]

Palgrave Macmillan and the British Film institute (BFI) enter into a
partnership to publish BFI titles.

line

April 2009

[v2]

Launch of Palgrave Connect, our ebook platform. Palgrave Connect offers
libraries a flexible approach to building an ebook collection. By 2014, there
are over 12,500 titles in the humanities, the social sciences and business
available.

line

March 2010

[v3]

Palgrave Macmillan launch Skills 4 Study Campus (S4SC) based on the work of
study skills expert Stella Cottrell, international bestselling author of The
Study Skills Handbook. S4SC is an innovative e-learning resource provided by
universities and colleges to help their students build the skills they need for
higher level learning and study success.

line

March 2012

[v5]

Palgrave Macmillan, along with four other academic publishers, starts supplying
electronic textbooks on the CourseSmart website. CourseSmart is the world's
largest provider of digital course materials and offers lecturers and their
students an easy way to find and access eTextbooks and digital course material
via web, tablet or mobile anytime and anywhere.

line

30th October 2012

[v2]

Launch of Palgrave Pivot, a boundary-breaking new format for scholarly
research. Palgrave Pivot offers authors the flexibility of publishing at
lengths between the journal article and the conventional monograph (typically
25-50,000 words).

line

January 2013

[v3]

Palgrave Macmillan launched an open access option for monographs and Pivot
publications. Open access journal articles had been available since 2011. Later
in 2013, we published our first open access monograph, funded by The Wellcome
Trust: Fungal Disease in Britain and the United States 1850-2000, by Dr Aya
Homei and Professor Michael Worboys.

line

2014

[v3]

Palgrave Macmillan moved from Basingstoke to its new London Campus in Kings
Cross. Our new London Campus houses all the divisions of Macmillan Science and
Education, giving staff the opportunity to collaborate, share ideas and
innovate across our businesses.

line

2015

A Palgrave Macmillan book, Immanuel Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason was voted
one of the top five Academic Books Which Changed the World.

In 2015 Palgrave Macmillan also became part of the newly merged company
Springer Nature. Springer Nature is the world’s largest academic book
publisher, publisher of the world’s highest impact journals and a pioneer in
the field of open research. Springer Nature was formed in 2015 through the
merger of Nature Publishing Group, Palgrave Macmillan, Macmillan Education and
Springer Science+Business Media.

 1. About us
 2. What we do
     1. Pivot
 3. Social media
 4. Events and conferences
     1. Asia
     2. Europe
     3. North America
     4. United Kingdom
     5. Business & Economics
     6. Humanities
     7. Social Sciences
 5. Prizes and awards
 6. Our history
 7. Office locations
 8. Careers

Help with

  • Help overview
  • Catalogues
  • Companion Websites
  • Confirming an Adoption
  • Contacting editors
  • Contacting sales reps
  • Ebook collections
  • Requesting Sample Copies
  • Rights and Permissions

Information for

  • Authors
  • Booksellers
  • Customers
  • Journalists
  • Lecturers
  • Librarians
  • Students

Other Sites and Products

  • Cite Them Right Online
  • Macmillan Education
  • Palgrave Australia
  • Palgrave Journals
  • Skills4studycampus
  • Springer Link
  • Springer Nature

Palgrave Macmillan publishes textbooks, journals, monographs and reference
books in print and online.

About Us

(C) Springer Nature Terms of use, Privacy Policy, Cookies Policy

JavaScript is currently disabled, this site works much better if you enable
JavaScript in your browser.

