
Free Will Baptist logo

ROUGE FREE WILL BAPTIST CHURCH

221 Ford Avenue, Wyandotte, MI 48192   Tel: 734-246-5668

  • HOME
  • PASTOR
  • SUNDAY SCHOOL
  • LADIES' MINISTRY
  • MEN'S MINISTRY
  • YOUTH MINISTRY
  • MUSIC MINISTRY
  • OUTREACH MINISTRIES
  • LINKS


[churchpic_2]

Services: Sunday School-9:45am  Sunday Worship-11:00am and 6:00pm  Wednesday
Youth Service-6:30pm  Wednesday Bible Study-7:00pm

 Sunday Sermon January 10, 2016

Your browser does not support the audio element.




Welcome to the Rouge Free Will Baptist Church!

  • Home
  • Weekly Bulletin
  • Calendar
  • Church Covenant
  • What We Believe
  • Church Leadership
  • Picture Gallery
  • Daily Devotion
  • Online Bible
  • ONE Magazine
  • Michigan Menorah-January
  • Free Will Baptist Radio

UPCOMING EVENTS:

  • November 2   Soup Kitchen Mon & Fri 11am - 12:30pm
  • January 11   Advisory Board Meeting 7pm
  • January 12   Women Active for Christ Meeting 6:30pm
  • January 16   Annual Business Meeting 3pm
  • January 19   Master's Men Meeting 6pm
  • January 23   Cass Ministry 10 am
  • January 24-26   MI State Men's Retreat @ River Junction
  • May 7   Home Plate 2016 9:30am


From a small store front building to a strong, beaming, beacon light stands the
Rouge Free Will Baptist Church. In 1944, God, in His infinite wisdom, sent a
home missionary team of four people from the State of West Virginia to the
Detroit, MI area. These visionaries ventured downriver into the small community
of River Rouge, a town composed mainly of blue-collar workers. The site
selected for the church, 73 East James Street, was in the residential area of
the town, not on it's main thoroughfare. For more than sixty one years the
doors of 73 East James Street remained open and served as a haven of rest for
God's children as they continually strove to spread the gospel and invite a
lost world into the safe haven that only God can provide; a safe haven that
throughout the years has been blessed with spiritual leaders and dedicated
church families that have carried on that commitment that began on February 29,
1944.

From the beginning, at 73 East James Street in River Rouge, to today at 221
Ford Avenue in Wyandotte, our church dedicates the sanctuary and facilities to
the continuance of His work and service. We praise the Lord for His goodness
and we thank Him for providing us with the opportunities to serve that we all
share.

Earthly rewards are not what we seek at Rouge Free Will Baptist Church. We are
humbled by references to our church as a "church filled with prayer warriors"
and even more humbled by references to the "walking miracles" that are proof of
the healing power of God brought on through the effectual prayer of His
children. And we do not take these spiritual and physical miracles lightly,
fully understanding that with them come obligations on our part. We continually
thank God and praise Him in prayer and worship for the great and mighty works
He has performed here.

We will always be a church that seeks His wisdom as we continue to carry on the
vision implanted back in 1944 by those four missionaries, a vision that
continues to be carried out today by the wonderful spiritual church leaders and
dedicated church families that make us the Rouge Free Will Baptist Church.

Back to TOP


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Copyright (C) 2012 Michael Ringel

