Make your own free website on Tripod.com
Make your own free website on Tripod.com
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
[Coffee_C]                                                         [Logo]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
About           Read Me!           Old Stuff          Links           Contact

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                          Welcome to Spiritual Coffee

                             Java for your Spirit!

***************************************************************************************

                                 Update 3.7.08

  Happy March web-surfers!  It’s three months into 2008 and here is my first
   post.  As always life’s been pretty busy and I finally found some time to
  update the site.  First off, for site updates, I fixed broken links on the
links page and also added links to the Musical Artists column.  Links to sites
for Falling Up, Shawn McDonald, & Todd Agnew were added.  I really enjoy music
from all three of these artists for varying reasons.  If you’ve never listened
  to any of these please check them out.  Also, I’ve added a Resources column
with links to Bible Gateway and eBible.  These are on-line tools I’ve used when
studying a subject in the word.  This column title may change depending on what
                        I decide to add in the future.

In the near future there is a lot of changing on the horizon for myself.  Some
 of that change is in the “unknown” zone so I’ve been working to stay in faith
for my future and believing God for the steps to walk into.  Without going into
 too much detail the thought of “…am I ready to pick up and go anywhere and do
  anything God wants me to?” came to me.  This brings up the subject of God’s
            will for my life.  James 4:13-17 (New King James) says:

13 Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a
city, spend a year there, buy and sell, and make a profit”; 14 whereas you do
not know what will happen tomorrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor
that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. 15 Instead you ought to
say, “If the Lord wills, we shall live and do this or that.” 16 But now you
boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil.
17 Therefore, to him who knows to do good and does not do it, to him it is sin.

  If we put that in today’s vernacular we could say “… come now, you who say,
 Today we will start a business …” or “… come now, you who say, I’m moving to
Florida…” without hearing from God first.  Basically it is saying boasting your
 own will, your own plan is evil or sin.  I don’t want to be doing my own plan
 or my comfort zone I just want what God has in store for me.  Amen. Verse 14
says our lives to be only a vapor then vanishing away.  In the grand scheme of
  things that doesn’t leave a lot of time to do God’s will and your own great
ideas.  The good news is that God does know what He’s doing.  He has a plan for
               each one of us.  Jeremiah 29:11 (Amplified) says:

   11 For I know the thoughts and plans that I have for you, says the Lord,
thoughts and plans for welfare and peace and not for evil, to give you hope in
                             your final outcome.  

This is a great scripture and personally I’ve been standing on it for the good
  plan God has for me.   Let’s follow that up with Proverbs 3:5-10 (New King
                                    James):

                   5 Trust in the LORD with all your heart,
                       And lean not on your own understanding;
                         6 In all your ways acknowledge Him,
                           And He shall direct your paths.
                          7 Do not be wise in your own eyes;
                         Fear the LORD and depart from evil.
                          8 It will be health to your flesh,
                             And strength to your bones.
                       9 Honor the LORD with your possessions,
                   And with the firstfruits of all your increase;
                     10 So your barns will be filled with plenty,
                     And your vats will overflow with new wine.

   The more we can spend time getting into the presence of God, waiting and
listening to what God has to say, our likelihood of success will only increase.
    We need to trust in the Lord with all our hearts as it says in verse 5.  
  When you trust someone you know they have your best interest in mind.  You
don’t second guess their judgment and you can rest and not worry what may come
 from that person you trust.  So trusting in the Lord puts you in peace, joy,
  and willing to what God wants you to do.  I also like verse 8 – 10 where it
                       speaks of health and overflow.  

 I can look back on my life and see so many times I’ve trusted God in a major
  decision, that may of looked in the natural as sketchy.  Every time He has
   blessed me greater than I ever could’ve imagined.  So being obedient and
willing in taking the steps to make decisions God wants us to do will result in
  peace, joy, and abundance.  Also keep in mind God is so good he’ll not only
                      bless you but everyone around you.

                      God Bless and have blessed 2008!!!

                                        

***************************************************************************************

                                Update  12.9.07

^8Above all things have intense and unfailing love for one another, for love
covers a multitude of sins [forgives and disregards the offenses of others].

^9Practice hospitality to one another (those of the household of faith). [Be
hospitable, be a lover of strangers, with brotherly affection for the unknown
guests, the foreigners, the poor, and all others who come your way who are of
Christ's body.] And [in each instance] do it ungrudgingly (cordially and
graciously, without complaining but as representing Him).

^10As each of you has received a gift (a particular spiritual talent, a
gracious divine endowment), employ it for one another as [befits] good trustees
of God's many-sided grace [faithful stewards of the extremely diverse powers
and gifts granted to Christians by unmerited favor].

^11Whoever speaks, [let him do it as one who utters] oracles of God; whoever
renders service, [let him do it] as with the strength which God furnishes
abundantly, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ
(the Messiah). To Him be the glory and dominion forever and ever (through
endless ages). Amen (so be it).

                                                                                                                                                                                   
            2 Peter 8 – 11

   The above scriptures are really powerful and I think appropriate for the
holiday season.  I know this time of year can get pretty hectic but I encourage
 you to take the time to consider walking in love when dealing with that store
  clerk or people you run into while shopping.  We live in a fast paced, fast
 food, fast everything society and most people don’t know how to relax without
                     some type of medical or liquid aide.

As Christians we need to remember we are representatives of Jesus Christ.  The
reason people tend to shy away from church or God is they have been offended by
some immature Christian or immature act.  We need to change our mentality as a
church.  Every one has a supply for the body of Christ.  We are to walk in love
  and how can we be vulnerable to one another if we can’t even relax and feel
safe enough to share our “supply” with our fellow church body.  I believe every
believer is called to a church body, and yes there may be several church bodies
in an area.  You can’t stay at home watching TBN or Daystar on Sunday and call
 it church.  You have a supply for that local church body you aren’t attending
               and that church body is missing what you have.  

 To better illustrate this “supply” , lets say your right foot got offended by
   your left shoulder and decided it was going to stay home and watch other
“bodies” on TV from home.  Well, that body would have a hard time moving around
 without that foot.  Just like that body missing it’s right foot a church body
is lacking when it’s members are not gathering together giving their supply to
each other.  A highly effective body is actively looking to cover each other in
  their weaknesses to better further the vision God has placed on that church
                                    body.  

 As 2007 ends we need to consider others, walk in love, and keep in mind your
                             and other’s supply.  

                God Bless, Merry Christmas, & Happy New Year!!!

                                        

                                        

***************************************************************************************

                                Update  8.26.07

 Can you believe more than half the year has past?  I say this to myself every
year but, can you believe summer is almost gone?  At this rate turkey day will
be here and I will have posted only 2 times this year.  So what have I been up
 to … Well, I’ve been out enjoying summer and not getting too caught up in the
 busyness of life or work.  Sometimes you have to balance hard work with some
time enjoying life and others around you.  It’s so important to spend time with
  your family or significant other.   Building meaningful relationships with
people in your church as well as family and loved ones is good.  The better we
   can interact with each other being real and not fake will help us be more
 vulnerable to each other.   To be a good Christian we should be kind, showing
the love of God, open, vulnerable, yet having proper boundaries with people and
                                 ourselves.  

 I’m just starting to learn proper boundaries with myself and others.  I thank
  God my wife has already, and still is, taken the time to learn about proper
boundaries.  Proper boundaries has taught me what I’m responsible for and what
  I should leave for others.  If you think about it, God is all about proper
  boundaries.  He doesn’t force His will on us and gives us the choice.   He
explains in His word the consequence for choosing against His will, yet always 
                      a gentlemen through the process.  

I encourage you to read some books and pray God show you proper boundaries for
yourself and others.  Perhaps you want to stop feeling exhausted from doing too
 much for others or you’re in the other side of the ditch.  You may feel like
you don’t want to touch anything with a ten foot pole.  If you’re in either of
              these ditches you need to find the middle ground.  

 I’m learning it’s never too late to learn something new.  It is essential to
learn proper boundaries as it relates to our walk with God.  How can we expect
   God’s best when we’re working through soul wounds from our youth.  That’s
               enough for now.  Until next time … Be Blessed!!!

                                        

***************************************************************************************

                                Update 1-23-07

  I recently came back from the KCM Minister's Conference in Newark, TX. I am
pleased to say I had an awesome time for being my first visit to Eagle Mountain
  Church Campus. The theme basis seemed to be Kenneth Copeland's prophecy for
2007 - The Open Door which he gave in Nov 06. Each speaker seemed to build upon
to the next. I had been following all of those ministers for some time now and
 to sit under their revelation and see that anointing in person was an awesome
                                  experience.

I don't think I can single out one speaker from the next as each spoke volumes.
What I came away with was a fresh outlook and good start to the new year! A lot
 has been brought to my remembrance as far as standing in faith and believing
God for my breakthrough. I have said this before but we tend to get complacent
 in our day to day lives and sometimes it is good to get a spark to lite that
                            fire inside up a notch.

 I'm definitely making changes in my habits which I feel will better equip me
  for what God has in store for me. I encourage anyone reading this to start
 spending time in the word daily. This is our spiritual food, but we also need
  to combine that with spending time in prayer communicating to God. We can't
           forget to infuse the power of the Holy Spirit to lead us.

 I know I haven't posted in a while so I wanted to drop this quick note while
 still fresh from the KCM Minister's Conference. I hope to make more time for
                                the site soon.

                     Until next time ...... Be Blessed!!!!

***************************************************************************************

                                Update 11-26-06

    A re-occurring message recently in my church has been the importance of
 developing a prayer life. Too often we get caught up in the day-to-day things
  that can keep us busy. Especially during this time of year for Thanksgiving
then Christmas we can lose sight of what should be important in our lives. The
              important thing is to take time everyday in prayer.

 Prayer is your communication to God. Another key while praying is making your
mind submit to your heart or spirit man. If your mind has been busy through the
week and then you try take time out to pray, if you don't keep your mind under
   control it will think of the next thing you need to get done while you’re
 praying. Luke 21:19 talks about standing firm to gain life. We need to stand
  firm when praying so our mind can hear and discern the voice of God. If you
don't you'll never know when God is speaking to you in that still small voice.

  Your soul (mind, will, and emotions) is the filter so-to-speak between your
spirit man and head. If your soul isn't renewed to the word of God then how can
you successfully hear from God? Sure, you can always plead your case to God and
 speak faith but, how can you hear what God has to say if your soul is wounded
and thinking of the next goal? We need to get this changed in our lives. Today
especially with some many distractions and false doctrines we need to hear from
                          God what is good and evil.

 Galatians 6 talks about a "due season". That "due season" translates from the
original text as when the time is right, better yet when the condition of your
 heart is right. When you get your soul in the right condition you can filter
 out the bad and allow God and interpret God when He talks to you. Christians
 should be living in complete victory in our lives as well as everyone around
 us. We should be having it so good that we shouldn't even have to say that we
     are Christians but the world should want what we have. But that isn't
  necessarily the case today because much of the church is not implementing a
daily prayer life submitting their mind to their spirit. We need to be so full
    of God's goodness that not only we are blessed beyond measure but so is
                              everyone around us.

I wasn't sure where I was going when I started this post other than I wanted to
 share that prayer is vital for every Christian today. I now see some atheists
trying to spew confusion to people that God isn't real. God isn't real to those
people because they either didn't know how to be intimate with God or didn't do
  it right. So, if you haven't started having a prayer life start today! Just
start with 5 minutes making your head stop thinking and start listening to your
 heart or spirit. From there you can grow as long as God wants you to pray. We
         can make change happen around us if we'll just begin to pray!

                       God Bless and Happy Holidays!!!!

***************************************************************************************

                                Update 10-13-06

   I want to begin this post with thankfulness for the position, people, and
 environment my Father God has allowed and blessed me with in my life. I look
 forward to the great things to come and I know that the Father’s plan for my
   life is much more than I can even fathom in my mind. I want my wants and
 desires to line up with the Father’s. I don’t want to learn how to control my
 life but give it up, be out of control leaving Jesus at the wheel making the
                    decisions. In Jesus mighty name, Amen.

So many times when we arrive at the realization that our lives are not meeting
  our expectations we try to quickly fix it. Perhaps you are not the type to
  quickly fix it but, adopt the thinking that “… once I start to <insert your
good idea here>, then I will be back on track…”. As time progresses in both of
 these examples what if they end up back where they started. Back again where
    they started, result after making the wrong decision(s). Now, take this
scenario and see it played out over and over again several times. Many people’s
 lives are this scenario, constantly trying to fix what’s wrong on their own.

One definition of crazy I heard was “…doing the same action over and over again
expecting the same result.” Many people keep trying to fix themselves all their
lives thinking “… this time I’ve figured it out …” to only fall into the other
   or same ditch again. There is only one way we can fix us and that is stop
                       trying to figure it out yourself!

 The bible says to love your neighbor as yourself. How can you do that the way
 God meant you to if you don’t love yourself correctly. Sure, we can say “… I
 like me …”, but do you really? Are you hard on yourself for making that wrong
decision or sin from five or ten years ago? Do you keep the bad things from the
past in front of you? If you think its motivation to make the right choice then
 you’re wrong. The blood of Jesus covers all of our sins, and we are to leave
 that old man in the past and buried. Also, if we are to repent of any sins we
 do commit that is also covered – its part of the package. Many times when we
 find ourselves at the result of sin or poor decisions we want to hide or fix
it. The truth is we are to run to God in those moments, repent and ask the Lord
                               where to go next.

 Instead of trying to control and manage your life we should let go. Over time
 we have put up so many walls from our childhood and environment we don’t even
    realize they are there. Just like that tree or building you have passed
   everyday on your way to work. Over time you don’t even notice that object
   there, but someone new to the area might point it out because to that new
                    person it sticks out like a sore thumb.

 I guess what I’m trying to get at is that many times we think people, timing,
 or circumstances stand in the way of receiving the full blessings of God. The
    reality is that there is only one thing keeping from what we should be
 experiencing and, that is you. We need to learn to stop making decisions for
  ourselves to survive but spend time to get intimate with the Lord so we can
hear what the Holy Spirit is saying is our next (correct) step or decision. Our
Father is a gentleman and will not force or impose His will on us. We have the
 right to make that decision or not. What an awesome Father that He can still
         find ways to bless us to a degree in our attempts and trials.

Once we learn to get intimate, stop acting “crazy” (see definition above), and
  be free of past hurts and decisions, we can live free and blessed lives. I
             believe then we would be walking in true prosperity.

I urge all of you to take time from your busy life to stop controlling it and 
                    be led on how to properly walk it out.

                Hallelujah, Praise you Lord, Thank you Jesus!!!

***************************************************************************************

                               Update 8-31-2006

  Can you believe it is already the end of August?! Where has the time gone?

As for site updates I have pretty much removed all remains of the old site. The
    "Old Stuff" link has been updated to a new page that just lists my old
 messages. These messages are in PDF format so if you have lived in a cave or
           new to the internet you need to get Adobe Reader to view.

 Approx a month ago, and shortly after my last post, after some brief time in
 prayer I felt the Lord gave me two words. Those two words were "get started".
 At the time there were a few things I had been believing God for so my first
 thought was, ok take a step of faith and expect those things to come as if I
 had them now, an attitude change. Under that thinking I kinda started to run
 with it and thought I had my next post to this site ready. It is funny how if
you slow down and don't get too far ahead of God any word or in this case words
       that the Lord gives you can have a completely different meaning.

In my eagerness I was ready to go full steam ahead on those desires I have had
   and was planning on making steps towards them. Then certain circumstances
  brought to my attention that the "get started" was basically get started on
  changing your thinking because you're thinking small. God has a much bigger
 plan for me and I was forming in my mind what I would like and what would put
                            me in my comfort zone.

   It's amazing how when we get a small piece of what God wants us to do we
 sometimes take it and run. We really need to change our thinking to be ready
   for what ever God asks you or puts on our heart. If God asked you to drop
everything and move to Texas would you do it? God has a wonderful plan for you
    and will always make provision. The word says in Isaiah the willing and
  obedient eat of the good fo the land. The key is spending quality time with
 Him. If you only visit God on Sundays and occassionally on Wed you won't get
the big picture and will have to work with fragmented pieces. This is an area I
  am trying myself to improve. I pray you get wisdom and work to make time to
 spend more time with the Father. We want to be strong Christians who know who
we are in Christ. The better you know who you are you'll be ready for what ever
           the Lord asks of you or what life tries to throw at you.

                                  God Bless!!

***************************************************************************************

                               Update 7-20-2006

 I have added Krystal Meyers to the Links page. I had heard some of her music
  some tmie ago and finnaly purchased her CD approximately a month ago. I was
pleased to find that I enjoy almost every song on her CD. I highly suggest this
CD if you enjoy rock music and meaningful lyrics. One of my favorite tracks on
 her CD is "Reflections of you". The lyric I like the most in this song is as
  follows: "I'm seeing for the first time. The changes on the inside shining
                                  through. "

  It has been a busy summer and I can't believe more than two months has past
 since my last post. For the first time I not only have been busy this summer
 with "stuff to do" but also taking time to enjoying it as well. It seems the
 past couple summers I had been grinding away at "what had to be done" so much
                      that the season would just pass by.

  I think even in working and striving to improve ourselves we don't take any
  down time to relax. We need to take time to let the work we have done kinda
take affect and "wash over us". In a nutshell, take it in. In previous years I
was so focused on where I want to be I sometimes missed what was occuring right
  in front of me. I can see that I am living in the harvest of previous work,
effort, and decisions. That harvest is mostly good and some not so good in some
                                   respect.

I'm not sure if I have a clear point to this post so here's my attempt to wrap
it up. There is nothing wrong in working hard toward a goal, just make sure it
   is a God given goal. If it's a God given goal the provision will be made
 available. It may not be easy but it will be possible. Given human nature, or
at least mine, taking time in between the steps to relax and evaluate yourself
 is a good thing instead of rushing in towards your next step. Better to play
       catch-up than get too far ahead and mis-step down the wrong road.

                                  God Bless!

***************************************************************************************

                                Update 5-6-2006

    Site update: I have added three new entries to the "Links" page. Under
ministries I have added a link to Bill Krause ministries. Under radio I added a
 link to Way-FM, and under musical artists I added a link to Nicole Nordeman's
      site. I have been blessed by all three of these since my last post.

Our church just hosted a conference and Bill Krause came to speak about honor.
 One scripture that he really brought out was Deuteronomy 5:16 where it talks
 about honoring your father and mother so that you may live long and it may go
  well with you. Actually, Deuteronomy is referencing Exodus 20:12. He really
brought out through a series of similar scriptures that God had appointed your
 parents when you were young as authority over your life. With that authority
    they ad God inspired direction for your life. When you go against that
authority something wrong will occur in your life. An impact statement he made
was go back to your first major mistake in your life and that most likely will
 lead back to the first major decision you made against the better judgment of
                                 your parents.

  Now keeping that same line of thought, everyone has at least one person of
  authority over you. If we are to be well in this world we are to honor that
person. If that person is your pastor, give honor to that person. If the pastor
asks you to do something you think isn't a good idea do it, not grudgingly but
with the outlook that your pastor has heard from God and you are going to learn
  something. If you go into that situation with a good attitude you will walk
away not only humble but with insight that you probably wouldn't of if you just
did it to get out of it. The example Bill Krause gave was for instance you were
 asked to work in the nursery. If you were to go into that nursery with a good
 attitude to be a blessing and you were inspired to come up with a new type of
 diaper. Now that new diaper can make you millions. If you went into that same
 situation reluctant you would never see that million dollar opportunity. God
    puts opportunities in front of us all the time. It is up to you to take
        responsibility to hear from God when those present themselves.

These all lead back to having a continual relationship with God, not only time
 in the word and prayer but along time on-purpose hearing from God. This is an
area I'm not proud to admit I need to work on. Life will always be busy and you
can always find things that "need to get done" but, we need to on-purpose make
                                 time for God.

***************************************************************************************

                                Update 2-3-2006

Since I didn’t make the announcement yet, Happy New Year! Here we are already a
    little over a month into 2006 and time already seems to be flying by. I
 personally have been really busy with little time to myself. It’s Super Bowl
   weekend so I don’t plan on any huge projects in store. My wife and I are
  planning on a de-stress weekend. I highly recommend making time for one if
                              desperately needed.

Things are starting to begin changing in both my life at home as well as work.
I can just feel things are going in a new direction and that excites me. Change
  is good, even if it may not seem like it at the time. You don’t want to be
   stuck in any status quo but strive to find God’s best in whatever you do.

 You know the word depicts our life as just a vapor. The life span of a vapor 
 doesn’t really leave much time for anything. So I want to bring across to you
that what you do here on Earth for the Kingdom of God is what matters. And, you
only have a “vapor” of time to fulfill that God given call. Perhaps God hasn’t
called you to evangelize all over the world, but I’m sure He has pointed you to
 somewhere or someone to influence towards His kingdom. Sometimes when we hear
that each one if us has a purpose we sometimes type cast it to bringing droves
 of sinners into the church. Which is a good thing but may not be what God put
 on your heart to do. So as this year 2006 starts to unfold keep in mind what
  you have been doing for the Kingdom of God and re-evaluate your priorities.

***************************************************************************************

                               Update 12-24-2005

    I have added the links and contact pages to the site. I will eventually
 separate these updates into another page instead of filling up the main page.
Until I get to that I will keep adding updates here. The links section is all I
 could come up with right now but will most likely add as I think of them. If
 you have any suggestions please don't hesitate to email me (email link now on
                                Contact page!).

Well, it’s Christmas Eve and my family (wife and her parents) are in the other
 side of the house getting dinner ready. As we draw near to a close of 2005 I
    want to share on something that is on my heart. Mostly I put the pieces
 together while ironically watching a couple TV shows. Two shows that I don’t
 normally watch but for some reason found myself in front of the tube watching
         were Nanny 911 ( I thing that's the name ) and Dog Whisperer.

 It is amazing that there two show keep finding material to continue airing. I
  have watched Nanny 911 twice now and both times ( I don't know why) I keep
getting floored that parents don’t' know how to discipline their children. They
  ignore and avoid their children when they act out. Some husbands literally
ignore their kids from a long day at work and expect the wife to do it all. I'm
 not going to share on how families should be structured but I want o use this
    to illustrate how we can ignore our spirit when it doesn't sound fun or
exciting. If we ignore the inner man (where God talks to us) we will just keep
 doing things our way and eventually our flesh has turned into a screaming and
yelling little brat who only wants its way. Just like children need discipline
 our flesh and soul need discipline. The word says to renew the spirit of our
                  minds so we are not conformed to the world.

This was only enforced more when watching Dog Whisperer. During the episodes I
 watched the dog owners let their dogs rule the show and just tried to pacify
 them when they would act out. In one case the owner let their dog get so bad
that the mail carrier wouldn't deliver to the whole street. Again if we let our
 soul do what our flesh wants (obviously opposite to our spirit or God's ways)
we will have a dog (so to speak) so out of control it drives anything good off
  from coming in. It is amazing how the host showed the dogs who is the true
 dominant one and correcting improper behavior immediately and assertively. We
  need to be that brutal with our flesh. In the word Paul says he treated his
         flesh ruffle and also says no good thing dwells in his flesh.

 It is so much clearer to me now that we need to take care of our soul just as
much as filling our spirit. We need to renew the spirit of our minds (soul) to
he word of God and take time to hear from God. Taking quiet time alone with God
will make all the difference in the world. In the busy pace of life we need to
 slow down and take time out to spend quietly with God. Let that time set the
                     tone for the rest of our week or day.

                           To all Merry Christmas!!

***************************************************************************************

                               Update 12-15-2005

As you can see I have uploaded some changes to the site design. Didn't realize
 until I uploaded this page how many links I really didn't need. Kinda looks a
 bit bare up there with only four links. I figure I will try to keep the site
 simple, not so cluttered compared to the earlier version of this site. If you
  haven't already checked, only two of the four links are actually wired up.

  I want to share on one subject that has been preached on quite a bit at my
 church, and that is maturing the soul. As you know your soul consists of your
mind, will, and emotions. Now the word says that the soul & spirit are as close
 knitted together as bone are marrow. The word also says that only the Word of
  God can separate the two. That is a pretty powerful statement and which is
  probably why the concept of soul & spirit can confuse some people. Anything
that you put in you has to come through your soul before it gets down into your
spirit man. So if we are not matured emotionally then we will not receive God's
  best spiritually. Emotional maturity and learning boundaries has been huge
 recently, next to revelations on joy. For the body of Christ to be the strong
  and mighty church we need to learn how to properly deal with each other. We
need to have relationships so down pat that the world will be flocking to fill
           and overfill our churches because they want what we got.

 I think I may have gotten a bit off track, most likely because it's late so I
  better make my point soon. I don't know about you but speaking for myself I
 know I have a strong relationship with my wife and am hungry and striving for
  God's best in my life. But (you the but was coming), certain things I have
believing God for have not come to manifested yet because I am convinced that I
need to mature soulishly in some areas. The word says the willing and obedient
   eat the good of the land. Also, look at the life of David. God just kept
blessing him because he held on the truth that God is good. I think most of us
 get caught up in our own difficulties and goals and forget to lay everything
down and give to God. I have been learning of proper boundaries in my marriage
 and communication which has only made things better. I am excited to see what
                        God has for my family in 2006.

         Until I ramble again, God Bless and have a blessed holiday!!!

***************************************************************************************

                               Update 11-15-2005

 Well, as you can see the site hasn’t changed much except that I have started
 putting updates. Right now some of the right side navigation works but I hope
to upload a redesign (w/ working navigation) within the next few months. Until
 then I will periodically add updates. If there is anything new you would like
 to see or miss from the old site (as if there are more than a hand full that
       actually visited) please email me at spiritualcoffee@hotmail.com.

Here is a link to the old messages I had posted in the past. It is a portion of
        the old site so all of the right side navigation may not work.

 So since this is my site I’m going to share a little bit. Recently our pastor
 has really been teaching on joy and how to have it operating in our lives. I
 especially have been trying to make a practice of having joy work in my life.
The word characterizes the kingdom of God as righteousness, peace & joy in the
   Holy Ghost. Each I think are equally important because you were made the
righteousness of God by the sacrifice Jesus made for us. In that alone contains
    our healing & prosperity mind, spirit, soul & body. Because we are the
righteousness of God we can experience the peace of God. And lastly joy in the
  Holy Ghost. If you’re filled with the Holy Ghost you can’t have a down day.

In James it says to count it all joy when you fall into a temptation, test, or
trial. That scripture use to puzzle me a bit. How, and much more why would I be
happy or joyful when I’m going through something of that sorts. You would think
 you need to get serious, go to that throne boldly and get un-happy until you
see that victory. Although you do need to go to the throne of Grace boldly when
 you have a need you don’t have to be unhappy or not have joy while doing it.
Faith is believing you have it now, not when you see it. So we need to rejoice
and laugh at the devil because God has met all your needs already. He knew you
were going to go through that trial so your only job is to rejoice and be HAPPY
  that you have been redeemed from any curse. So when it looks the worst and
in-spite of feelings you need to get happy and keep believing you have it now!

   So I have been taking time to rejoice in the Lord when I have a spare few
minutes. Now my schedule is pretty erratic so sometimes it may be in the car on
the way to work or even while working when there isn’t anyone around. I believe
   that only builds your faith even more so you can get even stronger on the
inside. We need to get past our feelings and flesh because they will only keep
                    us from God’s great plan for our lives.

            Well, til next post or upload God Bless and Rejoice!!!

***************************************************************************************

                               Update 10-19-2005

It has been a while since I have updated this site and I apologize for that. I
have had every intention to update this site with a re-design but the busy pace
  of life has not left much me much time to devote here. I plan to change the
                    current design and format of this site.

   In the past I have posted monthly messages but in Spiritual Coffee's next
 version I will probably not post as often. When I initially put up the site I
 was looking for an outlet to express my faith and also had a lot more time on
  my hands. Currently God has given me so much in my life I want to be a good
                    steward of it spending my time wisely.

I just returned from a conference where I walked away greatly blessed and with
 some great revelations. I was able to enjoy two new ministries that I haven't
 heard much of until last week. Both Terry Matthews & Mark Hankins ministries
were awesome and I greatly recommend them if you want to know about the move of
                                  the spirit.

 One thing that I walked away with from that conference is to have joy working
in my life. So many times when I have been believing God for something I would
  think I need to get serious and get ready for war against the devil or the
 circumstance before me. But if you read the word it says to be of good cheer
  because Jesus has overcome the world and to have joy unspeakable working in
  your life. Our part is to believe, take a step of faith, and rejoice while
 doing it. The word says when you fall into a temptation or trial count it all
 joy. So from this point forward I am going to rejoice! - hallelujah! - praise
                        the lord! - thank you Jesus!!!!

                              God Bless You All!!

***************************************************************************************

