Close
Skip to main content
sign in

  • Saved for later
  • Comment activity
  • Edit profile
  • Email preferences
  • Change password
  • Sign out

subscribe
search
jobs
more

from the guardian:

  • jobs

change edition:

  • switch to the UK edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition

US edition

  • switch to the UK edition
  • switch to the Australia edition
  • switch to the International

The Guardian

  • home
  • › world
  • › UK

  • europe
  • americas
  • asia
  • middle east
  • africa
  • australia
  • cities
  • development

  • home
  • US
  • world selected
  • opinion
  • sports
  • soccer
  • tech
  • arts
  • lifestyle
  • fashion
  • business
  • travel
  • environment
  • science

browse all sections close
UK news

Doubts crowd in on Wesley's heirs

Methodism marks birth of founder amid debate on future

Stephen Bates, religious affairs correspondent

Monday 16 June 2003 20.52 EDT Last modified on Thursday 31 December 2015 
21.29 EST

  • Share on Facebook
  • Share on Twitter
  • Share via Email
  • Share on Pinterest
  • Share on LinkedIn
  • Share on Google+
  • Share on WhatsApp

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Senior Methodists attending a commemoration service in Lincoln Cathedral today
to mark the 300th anniversary of the birth of the movement's founder, John
Wesley, may be forgiven if they eye the venue a little quizzically.

The choice of a cathedral may seem odd for a service to honour one whose
ministry was famously built outside the walls of the established church and who
had little time for bishops. But those joining in the hymns of Wesley's brother
Charles, soaring high up to the magnificent ceiling, may well reflect that this
is where their denomination's destiny lies, as Methodism once again engages
with the Church of England.

Lincoln has been chosen because Wesley was the son of the rector in the local
village of Epworth - and, despite founding a breakaway movement, he remained an
Anglican throughout a long life of preaching evangelism, mainly to the poor,
ignored by the established church.

Methodism, originally a pejorative term referring to the methodical pursuit of
biblical holiness, proved hugely attractive to those outside the establishment.
It gave rise to a movement of piety and respectability. This stretched into
social activism and politics - one of the wellsprings of the Labour party - and
into capitalism, with Methodists proving honest and often successful workers.
Its membership encompasses George Bush and Nelson Mandela.

By the time Wesley died in 1791, preaching almost to the end, he is calculated
to have delivered 40,000 sermons and given away -L-30,000. He remains one of
the few Britons, apart from Henry VIII and George Fox of the Quakers, who can
claim to have founded a religious denomination.

But today's service comes a fortnight before the annual Methodist conference
debates a motion to continue discussions with the Church of England about
"growing together in worship, prayer, mission and service" as part of a process
which some see as leading to the denomination's demise and absorption within a
decade. A similar debate will be held at next month's Church of England synod.

Moira Sleight, editor of the Methodist Recorder, said: "It is an unsettling
time. Congregations are getting older, young people don't join or they swap
churches more easily. We have got to get the church out of the habit of
speaking in the language of the 1950s."

In Britain, the church's active membership is about 314,000 and dropping by 2%
a year, while worldwide membership is 38 million and expanding. As in the
Anglican communion, congregations are growing in the developing world.

Dr George Freeman, general secretary of the World Methodist Council, based in
North Carolina, said: "In the west, we have forgotten how to do evangelism. We
have become more concerned with institutional maintenance. The Bible is true -
you reap what you sow."

In an article printed in the Methodist Recorder recently, the Rev Howard
Mellor, principal of Cliff College, Derbyshire, the denomination's largest
British training college, said British Methodism was on the edge of a
precipice, with only five years to get its act together in reforming its
ministry.

Mr Mellor told the Guardian: "We have a legacy of withered spirituality in the
life of the church which has left many ministers feeling disenchanted with the
faith, having neither vision nor hope. If the gospel is to mean anything it has
to be dynamic. At the moment, there's a sense of 'let's wait for the
Anglicans'."

The Rev David Flavell, a minister in Toxteth, Liverpool, who is active in the
Voice of Methodism group opposing amalgamation, said: "We don't think joining
with the Anglicans is the way forward. We will lose our traditions of extempore
worship and it will only continue our decline.

"The leadership is all in favour, but I see little sign of enthusiasm at the
grassroots."

The Rev Michaela Youngson, minister to three chapels in Oswaldtwistle,
Lancashire - Methodism is still strongest in north-west-England, Wales and
Cornwall - is more hopeful and praises the church's early embrace of women's
ordination and its social mission.

Discussions with the Church of England in the 1960s foundered because of the
larger church's reluctance. This time there are obstacles over issues such as
the role of women within the church - Methodists have women ministers at all
levels; Anglicans have still to decide whether ordained women can become
bishops - and over the government's role in appointing senior clergy in the
established church.

Ian White, this year's president of the Methodist conference, said: "I step
back from words like subsumed. If it is agreed that we're going to walk forward
together, then, at the end of the day, it will be a new church and a new
creation."

John Wesley foresaw troubles towards the end of his life. In his Thoughts Upon
Methodism, published in 1786, he stated: "I am not afraid that the people
called Methodists should ever cease to exist, but I am afraid lest they should
only exist as a dead sect, having the form of religion without the power. That
will undoubtedly be the case unless they hold fast both to the doctrine, spirit
and discipline with which they first set out."

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Topics

  • Religion

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Share on Facebook
  • Share on Twitter
  • Share via Email
  • Share on Pinterest
  • Share on LinkedIn
  • Share on Google+
  • Share on WhatsApp

  • Reuse this content

popular

The Guardian back to top

  • home
  • US
  • world selected
  • opinion
  • sports
  • soccer
  • tech
  • arts
  • lifestyle
  • fashion
  • business
  • travel
  • environment
  • science

all sections close

  • home
  • US
  • world selected
      □ UK selected
      □ europe
      □ americas
      □ asia
      □ middle east
      □ africa
      □ australia
      □ cities
      □ development
  • opinion
  • sports
      □ soccer
      □ MLS
      □ NFL
      □ MLB
      □ NBA
      □ NHL
  • soccer
      □ live scores
      □ tables
      □ competitions
      □ results
      □ fixtures
      □ clubs
  • tech
  • arts
      □ movies
      □ tv & radio
      □ music
      □ games
      □ books
      □ art & design
      □ stage
      □ classical
  • lifestyle
      □ food
      □ health & fitness
      □ love & sex
      □ family
      □ women
      □ home & garden
  • fashion
  • business
      □ economics
      □ sustainable business
      □ diversity & equality in business
      □ small business
  • travel
      □ USA
      □ europe
      □ UK
      □ skiing
  • environment
      □ climate change
      □ wildlife
      □ energy
      □ pollution
  • science
  • media
  • crosswords
      □ blog
      □ editor
      □ quick
      □ cryptic
      □ prize
      □ quiptic
      □ genius
      □ speedy
      □ everyman
      □ azed
  • video

  • World
  • › UK News
  • › Religion

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • jobs
  • guardian labs
  • subscribe
  • all topics
  • all contributors
  • solve technical issue
  • about us
  • contact us
  • complaints & corrections
  • terms & conditions
  • privacy policy
  • cookie policy
  • securedrop

© 2016 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
All rights reserved.
* *
*
[pv]
