[1343092384]

Menu:

  • Home
  • About Us
      □ Come and See
      □ Worship and Learn
      □ Grow and Serve
      □ Glossary
      □ FAQs
  • Services and Prayers
  • Ministries and Activities
  • Resources and Links
  • Location
  • Media
  • Calendar
  • News and Articles Archives
      □ First Visits
      □ Now, THAT'S Joy!
      □ "Hey, Nun!"
      □ Holy Week and Pascha
      □ Etiquette for Church Services
      □ The Parable of the Talents
      □ The Tenants and the Vineyard
  • Contact Us

Latest News

Nativity Pageant

Picture

AV @ Home

Picture

Memory Eternal!

Picture
Our Father in the Lord, +Metropolitan PHILIP, reposed in the Lord on Wednesday,
March 19, 2014. May his memory be eternal!
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

St. John Chrysostom Celebrates 20 Years

Picture
St. John Chrysostom welcomed His Grace +Bishop THOMAS on the occasion of our
annual patronal feast and 20th Anniversary Celebration. Sayidna Thomas began
the weekend festivities by attending a dinner with the parish council members
and their spouses on Friday evening.

On Saturday morning, His Grace had breakfast with the Antiochian Women (AOW).
This was the first time that Sayidna has met with the parish AOW exclusively. 
Following Great Vespers, on Saturday Evening, a gala banquet was held at the
Golden Stories Restaurant in Columbia, PA.  In addition to His Grace, the
Reverend Father Peter Pier and the Reverend Father Gregory Matthews-Green were
in attendance. 
The Banquet featured a congratulations from His Grace, comments from some of
the founders of the church and a slide show looking back over the past
20 years.
On Sunday, Orthros and a Hierarchical Divine Liturgy were celebrated.  At the
conclusion of the Divine Liturgy, the children of the parish sang for the
Bishop and presented him with a
bouquet of flowers. Afterwards, the women of the parish provided a lovely
reception for Bishop Thomas and our visitors.

On behalf of the entire Parish, we thank His Grace for celebrating the Feast
day of St. John Chrysostom with us and we look forward to seeing him again in
the coming
year.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

St. Tikhon's Mission Choir Visit 

Picture
On Sunday, February 5th, St. Tikhon's Orthodox Theological Seminary Mission
Choir performed at St. John Chrysostom Antiochian Orthodox Church.  

The choir sang the Divine Liturgy in the morning and then gave a concert in the
afternoon
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Patronal Weekend

Picture
St. John’s welcomed His Grace Bishop Thomas on the occasion of our annual
patronal feast day celebration. Sayidna Thomas began the weekend festivities by
attending a dinner with the parish council members and their spouses on Friday
evening.

On Saturday morning, His Grace blessed the icons in the dome which were written
this past Spring. He was accompanied by the Reverend Fr. Peter Pier, pastor of
St. John Chrysostom, and Dn. Jerome Atherholt.  Following the blessing, the
children learned about the Prophets in the dome from Kh. Pam. Great Vespers was
then concelebrated by Fr. Peter, Fr. Joseph Butts and Fr. Theodoros Daoud of
St. Mary’s in Hunt Valley, MD, with Bishop Thomas presiding. Following Great
Vespers, a gala banquet was held at the Golden Stories Restaurant in Columbia,
PA.

On Sunday, Orthros and a Hierarchical Divine Liturgy were celebrated which
included the elevation of the Reverend Fr. Joseph Butts to the rank of Arch
Priest. Fr. Joseph is leaving Holy Ascension in West Chester, PA to join the
United States Navy as a Chaplin. Fr. Daniel Meyer of Holy Ascension was also in
attendance. After Divine Liturgy, the women of the parish provided a lovely
reception for Bishop Thomas and our visitors. On behalf of the entire Parish,
we thank His Grace for celebrating the Feast day of St. John Chrysostom with us
and we look forward to seeing him again in the coming year.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Dome Icons are complete

Picture
For those who have not been back to St. John Chrysostom since the scaffolding
was taken down, the icons around Christ the Pantocrator are complete. Many
thanks to our friends Elias and Elaine Katsaros for their hard and beautiful
work
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

copyright St. John Chrysostom Antiochian Orthodox Church

Quantcast
✕
