  • View cart  Cart
  • My Account
  • Help/FAQ

 [                         ] Search
InterVarsity Press

 

  • Browse
  • IVP Books
  • IVP Academic
  • IVP Connect
  • Formatio
  • IVP Crescendo
  • IVP Praxis

  • Ebooks
  • New Books
  • Future Books
  • Bestsellers
  • Award Winners
  • On Sale
  • Videos
  • Newsletters
  • Book Club

 

➼ Free shipping on all U.S. web orders $45+ ➼

Daily Bible Study

Introducing Numbers

One month after the close of the book of Exodus, Moses commands a census of all
the Jews. He finds that an Israelite army would number 603,550 fighting men. A
generation later (Nu 26) he will commission a new count. These human
inventories—the numbering of God's people—provide the title of the Pentateuch's
fourth book.

But the ancients had another name for this account: they called it "In the
Wilderness." That title is a fitting one for the story of a wandering people
caught in transition between slavery and freedom. Having fled Pharaoh's tyranny
in Egypt, God's people seek the permanent homeland of their dreams. But reality
interferes with their dreams; they face the crises and trials of nomadic life.

Along with its colorful and gripping narrative, Numbers offers a metaphor for
the wilderness experience every human must encounter. We experience life as a
pilgrimage like that of Moses and his people, with past struggles behind us and
dreams yet to fulfill. Along the way, there is heartbreak and disappointment.
But the voice of God is consistent, calling on us to face every challenge with
steadfast obedience. Like the Israelites, we discover that the hardest times
produce the strongest lessons, and that at the other end of the wilderness
journey we find ourselves wiser and more capable. To obey God is to move
forward in life with direction and purpose.

But disobedience has consequences. When God's people rebel against his command
to enter Canaan, the results are painful and far-reaching. We learn that our
own failures have implications for generations yet unborn. There is nowhere in
the Bible a more graphic picture of the social consequences of sin.

Numbers begins with the exodus generation. It ends thirty-nine years later with
the story of their children fighting to solidify their place in Canaan. It
begins shortly after the Israelites receive the Law from Mount Sinai. It ends
as they struggle to live by that Law in a world of hostile neighbors. It begins
with a leader, Moses, at the peak of his power. It ends as Moses, forbidden
from entering the Promised Land, gives way to a new leader. These are
thirty-nine pivotal years in the spiritual history of a nation.

As you study Numbers, watch for these themes: obedience, purity, leadership,
guidance, discouragement, deliverance. What can you learn and apply from the
lessons of Moses' people? As those themes play out in the book of Numbers, so
will they be repeated in the wilderness experiences of our own lives.

Individual Studies

  • Numbers 1: People Count!

  • Numbers 9: Looking Back; Looking Ahead

  • Numbers 11: No Thanks

  • Numbers 12: A Critical Spirit

  • Numbers 13:1—14:12: Taking Risks

  • Numbers 17: Budding Leadership

  • Numbers 20:1-13: God's Work; God's Way

  • Numbers 21:1-9: The Serpent That Saved

  • Numbers 27:12-23: Passing the Torch

  • Numbers 32: United We Stand

Current Quiet Time

  • Read Today
  • Read the Previous Day

IVP Newsletters

Subscribe to any of IVP's free email newsletters to receive word about books,
authors, exclusive offers and topics of interest to you.

Bible Study Schedule

  • Dec. 31 - Jan. 10: 1 John
  • January 11-13: Habakkuk
  • January 14: 2 John
  • January 15: 3 John
  • Jan. 16 - Feb. 8: Jeremiah

Share |
 

The Letters of John NTWE

book coverIn his letters, John expresses delight at believers who are "walking
in the truth": behaving with that integrity which reflects the gospel. These
nine studies from N. T. Wright will believers become people who are "walking in
the truth" in our own day—people in whom the very life of God is at work for
all to see. [Learn More]

About the Quiet Time Bible Study

book coverThese daily online studies are adapted from our Quiet Time Bible
Guide. The studies go through the Old and New Testaments in just over two
years.

The approach taken by our quiet time Bible studies does not include answers.
The goal of the study is to help you dig into Scripture for yourself. You can
go deeper using a commentary, Bible background guide or Bible handbook.

Related Books

  • Quiet Time
  • The Quiet Time Companion
  • Quiet Times for Christian Growth

Free Resources

  • Quiet Time Bible Study
  • Hard Saying of the Day
  • Discussion Guides
  • Videos
  • Newsletters

Follow and Share

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram Google+ YouTube
 

➼ Free shipping on all U.S. web orders $45+ ➼

  • About Us
  • Contact Us
  • Privacy Policy
  • Jobs
  • Submissions
  • Permissions
  • Translations
  • International
  • Media

InterVarsity Press / PO Box 1400 / Downers Grove, IL 60515 / 630.734.4000 /

Copyright (C) 1995-2016 by InterVarsity Christian Fellowship/USA

