  • Home
  • Info
  • Events
  • Clergy And Staff
  • Watch Sermons
  • Liberating Word
  • Give Online Now

No Matter Where You Are On Life's Journey, You Are Welcome Here.

  •  
  •  
  •  

  • Home
  • Info
  • Events
  • Clergy And Staff
  • Watch Sermons
  • Liberating Word
  • Give Online Now

 

slideshow

  • [VaHi-Mission-1]
    Our Worship Theme For 2016
    [ArtofGod]
  • [VaHi-Mission-2]
    WEDDINGS
    HOST YOUR SPECIAL DAY HERE
    Learn More
    [WeddingCakeEquality1-6]
  • [VaHi-Mission-3]
    ANCIENT WORDS. EVER NEW.
    Worship - 11 a.m.
    Sermons With A Modern Touch
    Watch Online
    [Rent_Sermon-0374406]
  • [VaHi-Mission-3]
    Help Me Grow Our Children's Ministries
    LEARN HOW
    [childrens]
  • [VaHi-Mission-3]
    Support Our Ministry With Mobile Giving
    TRY IT NOW
    [logo]
  • [VaHi-Mission-2]
    LIBERATING WORD
    DAILY DEVOTIONS FOR YOU
    Learn spiritual truths on life's journey
    Read More
  • [VaHi-Mission-3]
    Help Us Transform Homelessness in Atlanta
    LEARN MORE
    [TheRiver_glow]

Visitor? Find out how, where and when we worship
Visitors Info

Welcome to Virginia-Highland Church

We are a Progressive Community of Faith. No matter where you are on life's
journey, you are welcome here!

mike_preaching

Rev. Michael Piazza, Senior Pastor

Virginia-Highland Church is a progressive and inclusive community of faith in
the heart of the city that gave us such civil rights heroes as Nobel Peace
Prize-winners Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and President Jimmy Carter. This
church seeks to embody the values of justice and peace for which they both
worked so hard. This congregation stood up for the inclusion of women, and
lesbian, gay, and transgender folks and, as a result, had to give up their
place in the Southern Baptist and Georgia Baptist Conventions. Courage such as
that should be honored.

Today the church has witnessed a rebirth and renewal that has been energizing
and challenging. We have grown into a vibrant and diverse community, anchored
by our progressive faith and vision . If you are looking for a place where you
can make a difference, this may be it. That is why we are here, and we invite
you to find out if this is where you belong, too. No matter where you are on
life’s journey, you are welcome here.

We were not able to be present for the resurrection of Jesus; however, we now
have a chance to participate in the resurrection of this part of the Body of
Christ. If you are looking for a place where your life can have greater,
perhaps even eternal, meaning, we hope we will see you Sunday morning at 11:00!

Liberating Word

good-evil-cleanedup2

Renounce Evil

I responded very sharply recently to someone who probably thought they were
asking a simple […]

January 12, 2016
Jordan River

The Water of Baptism

Yesterday was Baptism Sunday, so I have been thinking about how the water of
baptism […]

January 11, 2016
Woods

Go to the Woods

In addition to being the pastor of Virginia-Highland Church, I also am teaching
a class […]

January 8, 2016
Read More...

  • VaHi-Mission-3

    Do Justice

    Champion social justice for those whose voices are not heard, by leading in
    the fight for moral, spiritual, and political change

  • VaHi-Mission-2

    Love Mercy

    Unselfishly serve those who are at society's margins

  • VaHi-Mission-1

    Walk Humbly

    Foster a safe space to question, explore, and expand faith

Learn And Grow With Us

We are a dynamic and growing church. Learn more about upcoming events and watch
selected sermons online.

Sermons On-Demand View All Sermons

  • mike_piazza

    The Art of Living with Peace

    Rev. Michael Piazza

    December 13, 2015

    More Info
  • Glory to God in the Highest & Dormi Jesu

    VHC Music Ministry

    December 13, 2015

    More Info
  • Keep Your Lamps Trimmed and Burning

    VHC Music Ministry

    December 13, 2015

    More Info

Upcoming Events View Calendar

  • 13 Jan
     

    Music Together Class

    9:30 am
  • 13 Jan
     

    Music Together Class

    10:30 am
  • 13 Jan
     

    Choir Rehearsal

    7:30 pm :Room 209
  • 14 Jan
     

    Meditation Class

    7:00 pm

  • Watch Sermons Online

    mike_piazza

    The Art of Living with Peace

    Virginia-Highland Church's theme for the coming…

    Glory to God in the Highest & Dormi Jesu

    As is our tradition at Virginia-Highland…

    Keep Your Lamps Trimmed and Burning

    As is our tradition at Virginia-Highland…

    mike_piazza

    Taking Back Heaven (All Saints' Sunday)

    On Sunday, November 1, Virginia-Highland Church…

  • Liberating Word

      □ Renounce Evil
      □ The Water of Baptism
      □ Go to the Woods
      □ If he’d had a little water …
      □ The Healing Light
  • Support Our Children’s Ministry

      □ About Our Children’s Ministry
          ☆ Amazon Wish List
          ☆ Amazon Infant Room Wish List
          ☆ IKEA Wish List (PDF)

  • Contact Us:

    743 Virginia Avenue NE
    Atlanta GA 30306
    Office: 404-348-4830
    Email: info@vhchurch.org

  • Share With Others

    Share on FacebookTweet about this on TwitterPin on PinterestEmail this to
    someonePrint this page

(C) (2016)
Proudly Designed by Croma
