[heading]

Table of Contents:

_    [spacer]    [spa] _   _
[linkbar_r1_c1]            [s]
     [linkbar_r2_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r3_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r4_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r5_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r6_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r7_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r8_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r9_c2]       _
     [linkbar_r10_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r11_c2]      _
[l]  [linkbar_r12_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r13_c2]  [l] _
     [linkbar_r14_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r15_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r16_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r17_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r18_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r19_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r20_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r21_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r22_c2]      _
     [linkbar_r23_c2]      _
[linkbar_r24_c1] [lin]     _
[linkbar_r25_c1]           _

Current events to look out for:

Microchips implanted under the skin of office workers A Swedish office

Muslim Scholar Calls for Jewish Place of Worship on Temple Mount A Jordanian
 Muslim preacher has called for Jews to be allowed to pray on the Temple Mount,

NASA Satellites Find Tigris and Euphrates river basins lost 117 million acre
feet (144 cubic kilometers) of total stored freshwater.

Christians Are Murdered This is a list of targeted acts of terrorism

Articles:

7 Year Tribulation

Cold Case Evidence for Christianity

The 2015 Blood Moon

Biblical Cycles of 7

The Last Year Through the fig tree parable (Matt 24:32-34) Jesus gives us the
exact day and hour this generation started; Evening May 14, 1948. 

2014-2016 Shmita/Jubilee God's calendar is divided into 7 year cycles with
every 7th year called Shmita. These 7x7 year cycles always repeat. On September
25, 2014 our generation entered the 7th and last Shmita (49th year) of this
current cycle which ends at the Feast of Trumpets September 13, 2015. 

7X7 Shmita Harbingers From the 7 days of creation in Genesis to the 7 seals/
trumpets/bowls of Revelation, Scripture abounds with the number 7.

When is Rapture of the Church?

Pre, Mid, Post Tribulation?

Does the bible tell us when the rapture of the church will happen? Both the old
and the new testament speak of this event. Rapture refers to the church being
forcefully removed from the earth to be with the Lord Jesus. In 1 Thess 4:13-17
the Apostle Paul says "For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a
shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead
in Christ shall rise first:  Then we which are alive [and] remain shall be
caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so
shall we ever be with the Lord." Can we trust this statement as being true and
accurate? 

Once we determine that this event is actually going to happen the next question
is when will it happen? Paul had to write back to the Thessalonians because
this statement stirred them up to the point that they were expecting it to
happen at any moment. 2 Thess 2:1-11  " Now we beseech you, brethren, by the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and [by] our gathering together unto him, That
ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word,
nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man
deceive you by any means: for [that day shall not come], except there come a
falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition; Who
opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is
worshiped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that
he is God. Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these
things? And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time.
For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth [will
let], until he be taken out of the way. And then shall that Wicked be revealed,
whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy
with the brightness of his coming: [Even him], whose coming is after the
working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,  And with all
deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received
not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.  And for this cause God
shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: That they all
might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in
unrighteousness." 

So we've got an answer to our "when" question. There is a falling away and then
the Holy Spirit is taken out of the way. "He who letteth [will let], until he
be taken out of the way" This verse refers to the rapture of the church. The
Holy Spirit is lifted off the earth. The church goes with it. Then the wicked
one is revealed. This wicked one is an individual. Daniel 9:27 speaks of him.
"Then he shall confirm a covenant with many for one week; But in the middle of
the week He shall bring an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of
abominations shall be one who makes desolate, even until the consummation,
which is determined, is poured out desolate." Revelation 13:5 speaks of him.
"And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies;
and power was given unto him to continue forty [and] two months. And he opened
his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle,
and them that dwell in heaven.  And it was given unto him to make war with the
saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and
tongues, and nations. And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him,
whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the
foundation of the world" Revelation 11:7 also refers to him "And when they
shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the
bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill
them." The "beast" and the "Antichrist" are synonymous. The Antichrist is an
individual while the beast is the world system that he represents.

In Matthew 24:15, Jesus tells Israel how to deal with this wicked one. "When ye
therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the
prophet, stand in the holy place, (whoso readeth, let him understand:) Then let
them which be in Judaea flee into the mountains:  Let him which is on the
housetop not come down to take any thing out of his house: Neither let him
which is in the field return back to take his clothes. And woe unto them that
are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!  But pray ye that
your flight be not in the winter, neither on the sabbath day: For then shall be
great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this
time, no, nor ever shall be." 

What do we know so far? The wicked one is revealed after the church is taken
out of the way. The wicked one makes a covenant with many for "one week." This
"one week" is the missing week from Daniel's seventy week prophecy. It is also
referred to as "the day of the Lord". Matthew 24:36 "But of that day and hour
knoweth no [man], no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. But as the
days of Noe [were], so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. For as in
the days that were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and
giving in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, And knew not
until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the
Son of man be. Then shall two be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the
other left.  Two [women shall be] grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken,
and the other left."

Now we have additional information. People won't be expecting the rapture of
the church. They will be eating and drinking. There will be weddings, dinners,
and events. People will be going to work at the mill or out in the field.
Pretty much business as usual. Then it happens. One will be taken, and the
other left. This information automatically disqualifies the idea of a post
tribulation rapture. At the end of the tribulation period the world as we know
it will be pretty much destroyed. It will not be a time of "business as usual".
If the rapture is to happen during the tribulation period but sometime before
mid-tribulation then how do you explain 2 Thess 2:7? The church is taken out
before Antichrist is revealed. Antichrist cannot make a "one week" or "seven
year" covenant with many while the church is still here. Daniel is clear. It is
an individual that makes the covenant. Not the world system which is pictured
as the "beast".

We have a picture of the raptured church in Revelation 5:8.. And when he had
taken the book, the four beasts and four [and] twenty elders fell down before
the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours,
which are the prayers of saints.

And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open
the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy
blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation; Some
commentators believe that these elders refer to angels or heavenly beings. I
believe they are representative of the church. There is no instance in the
bible where the word elder refers to an angel. It is always a person and a
representative of the people.

Who are they that are singing this song? They are the ones who are the subject
of the verse. Those redeemed to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and
tongue, and people, and nation; These are not angels singing. This is not their
song. This is the church singing. We are there with the Lord in heaven before
the first seal of the scroll is even opened. The Lord has snatched us away to
be with himself before the tribulation period begins. The tribulation period
begins with the opening of the first seal of the scroll in chapter six.

In summary, the rapture of the church will happen when there is a falling away.
Falling away from what? A falling away from the truth of the gospel. It will be
a time when people call good evil and evil good. It will be a time when people
attempt to change God's word into something perverted that it does not say. The
rapture will happen before the son of perdition or Antichrist is revealed. This
individual will then make a seven year covenant with Israel. Have we seen any
of these things? We have definitely seen a falling away. 

Get ready for rapture!


━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ [space] _
[footing_r1_c1]                                                                                                                _
[footing_r2_c1]                                                                    [footing_r2_c2]                     [footi] _
                                                                                   [footing_r3_c2]                             [s]
