[                    ]  
 

  • About
      □ Who We Are
      □ What We Believe
      □ What to Expect
      □ Photo Gallery
      □ Contact Us & Directions
      □ Our Staff and Leaders
      □ FAQ
  • Upcoming Events
      □ Calendar
  • Ministries
      □ Adult Ministries
          ☆ Germany Tour, 2016
      □ Children's Ministry
          ☆ VBS 2016:
      □ Family Ministry
      □ Music Ministry
          ☆ Fine Arts/Concert Series
          ☆ Choirs
          ☆ Music Schedules
          ☆ Choir Parts
          ☆ Instruments and Ensembles
          ☆ Music at Midday
          ☆ Music Notes
          ☆ Music Samples
          ☆ Organ Information
          ☆ Sacred Music Scholarship Competition
          ☆ Germany Tour, 2016
      □ Youth Ministry
          ☆ Youth Ministry Calendar
      □ Lutherans For Life
      □ Other Ministries
      □ Missions
      □ Lutheran Educational Scholarship Program
  • Resources
      □ Sermons
      □ Newsletters
      □ Music Resources
          ☆ Music Samples
          ☆ Music Notes
          ☆ Choir Parts
          ☆ Music Schedules
          ☆ Wedding Music Information
          ☆ Organ Information

      

  • Events
  • Media
  • Contact
  • Give
  • LCMS
  •  
  •  
  •  

 
Lord of Life Lutheran
[loading]
[monkimage]
[monkimage]
[monkimage]
[monkimage]

  • Our Beliefs
  • Worship
  • Music
  • Ministries

Our Beliefs
[monkimage]

Sola gratia.  Sola fide.  Sola scriptura.

As a member of the Lutheran Church Missouri Synod, Lord of Life abides by the
Word of God and the Biblical-based teachings of Martin Luther and the reformers
that can be summarized in three short phrases: Sola gratia.  Sola fide.  Sola
Scriptura.  Sinners are justified (declared right) with the Creator God by
grace alone (sola gratia), through faith alone (sola fide), on the basis of
Scripture alone (sola scriptura).

 

Our Beliefs

Worship
[monkimage]

Worship

Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one
another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with
thankfulness in your hearts to God. -Colossians 3:16

At Lord of Life, each service is shaped by the liturgical year and the readings
of the day (the lectionary.) We follow service formats taken from one of the
five Divine Service liturgies found in our denomination’s hymnal, the Lutheran
Service Book. Our early and late services are identical in order that we can
communicate the same timeless truths of Christianity to everyone, regardless of
their preferred service time.

More about worship at Lord of Life

Music
[monkimage]

Music Ministry

 Lex orandi, lex credendi
"As one prays, so one believes"

O God, whom saints and angels delight to worship in heaven: Be ever present
with your servants who seek through art and music to perfect the praises
offered by your people on earth; and grant to them even now glimpses of your
beauty, and make them worthy at length to behold it unveiled for evermore;
through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

Music at Lord of Life

Ministries
[monkimage]

Ministries

 Adult Ministries

Children's Ministry

Youth Ministry

Family Ministry

Other Minstries

Missions

Upcoming Events

What's happening at Lord of Life

Jan 12

Board of Elders Meeting

7:00pm - 8:00pm
Jan 12

LWML

7:00pm - 8:00pm
Jan 13

Midweek Bible Study

10:00am - 11:00am
Jan 13

Handbell Practice

6:00pm - 7:00pm
Jan 13

Jr. Confirmation-Levels I & II

6:30pm - 7:30pm
Jan 13

Adult Choir

7:00pm - 8:00pm
Jan 13

Jr. Confirmation Level III

8:00pm - 9:00pm
Jan 14

Strategic Planning Committee Meeting

7:00pm - 8:30pm

Calendar

Featured Sermons

[monkimage]

Baptized into Christ

Jan 10 | Pastor Shaltanis

  • Listen
  • Download

Sermon Archive

Thanks to the generosity of QuestionPro and its Survey Software, we are able to
track new and exciting data for our stakeholders. QuestionPro's advanced
features allow us to collect responses and distribute vital information to
participants.

3601 W. 15th Street Plano, Texas

Top

  • Events
  • Media
  • Contact
  • Give
  • LCMS
  •  
  •  
  •  

 (C) 2016 Lord of Life Lutheran

