Loading ...
Sorry, an error occurred while loading the content.
Sign In

  • More From Yahoo
      □ Yahoo
      □ Mail
      □ News
      □ Sports
      □ Finance
      □ Weather
      □ Games
      □ Groups
      □ Answers
      □ Screen
      □ Food
      □ Tech
      □ Flickr
  • Tools
      □ Help
      □ View Desktop Version
  • Careers
  • About
  • My Saves
  • Settings
  • Sign Out
  •  
  • Terms
  • Privacy

Sign Out

Terms and Privacy

Toggle the menu

Yahoo Groups

Search  
Mail

Welcome to Yahoo Groups.

An extension to your real life group of friends, interests and communities.
What's new : see video

  • Sign In
  • You must be a registered Yahoo user to start a group.  Sign Up

[                    ]
Receive an inspirational, thought-provoking scripture-a-day from the LDS
standard works. is a Restricted Group with 514 members.

  • Receive an inspirational, thought-provoking scripture-a-day from the LDS
    standard works.
  • 
      □ 
      □ Restricted Group,
      □ 514 members

Primary Navigation

  • Conversations
  • Photos
  • Files
  • Attachments
  • Events
  • Polls
  • Links
  • Database
  • About
  • More

 

  • Back
  • About Group

  • Join Group

No activity in last 7 days

Group Description

This group is inactive here at YahooGroups and has been moved to Google Groups.
Please look for and join us there. If you don't know how to do that, you are
welcome to join here and the listowner will then add you to the Google Group.
Why? An update in YahooGroups erroneously changed this from an open to a
restricted group, and settings prevent the group owner from reversing it. Alas,
YahooGroups literally has no customer service, so we are stuck. All new members
here are approved and then added to the active group at Google Groups.

Receive a scripture by email each day from the LDS standard works (The Bible,
Book of Mormon, Doctrine & Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price). The scriptures
are usually 1-3 verses and go along with the LDS yearly course of study for
Gospel Doctrine Sunday School classes. The daily scripture verses are intended
to inspire the reader - or at least cause them to think, and are intended to
work together to support the reader in their scripture studies.


Please note this service is not intended to and should in no way replace your
own daily scripture study. Instead, the group manager hopes that you will use
it to supplement your own study, and to give yourself a spiritual boost within
each busy day. While one short scripture a day can serve as a reminder and be
an inspirational interlude within daily life, each of us has our own spiritual
needs and it is often through an individual's own quiet reading and
contemplation of the scriptures that the Lord gives the inspiration they
specifically need in their life at that time.


Updates or informational messages regarding the list may also be sent
periodically.


Group Website

http://ldssotd.blogspot.com/

Group Information

  • Members :514
  • Category :Devotionals
  • Founded :Jan 31, 1999
  • Language :English

Group Settings

  • This is a restricted group.
  • Attachments are not permitted.
  • Members cannot hide email address.
  • Listed in Yahoo Groups directory.

  • Membership requires approval.
  • Messages are not moderated.
  • Only moderators can post messages.

Group Email Addresses

  • Post Message :lds-sotd@yahoogroups.com
  • Subscribe :lds-sotd-subscribe@yahoogroups.com
  • Unsubscribe :lds-sotd-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
  • List Owner :lds-sotd-owner@yahoogroups.com

Message History

[info]
