Subscribe to Franklin Church of ChristNews ReadersSubscribe to Franklin Church
of ChristPostsSubscribe to Franklin Church of ChristComments

Saving the world one precious soul at a time

Search the website

[Type keywords and hi]
  • Home
  • About Us
      □ Our Mission
      □ What We Teach
      □ Members
      □ Shepherds
      □ Deacons
      □ Evangelist
  • Assemblies
      □ What You Can Expect in Our Assemblies
      □ Archived Articles
      □ Archived Sermons
      □ Messengers
  • Bible Classes
      □ Mission and Schedule
      □ Individual Study
      □ Daily Bible Reading
  • Contact Us
  • Directions
  • Search with Google

  • Welcome
  • Blog
      □ Uncategorized
  • Bulletin Articles
      □ Articles on Alcohol
      □ Articles on Authority
      □ Articles on Baptism
      □ Articles on Bible Study
      □ Articles on Christian Living
      □ Articles on Church Growth
      □ Articles on Evangelism
      □ Articles on Evidences
      □ Articles on Evil
      □ Articles on Faith
      □ Articles on God's Love
      □ Articles on Good Deeds
      □ Articles on Honoring God
      □ Articles on Kindness
      □ Articles on Marriage
      □ Articles on Mercy
      □ Articles on Parenting
      □ Articles on Prayer
      □ Articles on Premillennialism
      □ Articles on Pride
      □ Articles on Real Christianity
      □ Articles on Relationships
      □ Articles on Salvation
      □ Articles on Teaching
      □ Articles on the Bible
      □ Articles on the Church
      □ Articles on the Holy Spirit
      □ Articles on the Lord's Supper
      □ Money
  • Events
      □ Gospel Meetings
      □ Group Studies
      □ Singing
      □ Summer Series
      □ Summer Series 2013
  • From the Preacher's Study
      □ Study of Christmas
      □ Study of Jesus
      □ Study of the Church
      □ Study on Authority
      □ Study on Calvinism
      □ Study on Christian Living
      □ Study on Church Organization
      □ Study on Evangelism
      □ Study on Family
      □ Study on Finances
      □ Study on God's Love
      □ Study on Heaven
      □ Study on Love
      □ Study on Loving Your Brother
      □ Study on Prayer
      □ Study on Purity
      □ Study on Threats to Christianity
      □ Study on the Bible
      □ Study on the Holy Spirit
      □ Study on the Lord's Supper
  • Guidance from our Shepherds
      □ Guidance on Comfort
      □ Guidance on Contentment
      □ Guidance on Ethics
      □ Guidance on Faith
      □ Guidance on Family
      □ Guidance on Finances
      □ Guidance on Forgiveness
      □ Guidance on Giving Thanks
      □ Guidance on Obedience
      □ Guidance on Overcoming Temptation
      □ Guidance on Parenting
      □ Guidance on Peace
      □ Guidance on Politics
      □ Guidance on Providence
      □ Guidance on Suffering
      □ Guidance on Teaching
      □ Guidance on Unity
      □ Guidance on Worship
      □ Guidance on the Christian Life
      □ Guidance on the Lord's Supper
      □ Guidance on the Resurrection
      □ Guidance on the Scriptures
  • Sermons
      □ Gospel
      □ Lessons in Scripture Reading & Song
      □ Sermons Answering Questions
      □ Sermons of Fall Focus
      □ Sermons of Gospel Meetings
      □ Sermons of Special Series
      □ Sermons of Vacation Bible School
      □ Sermons on Accountability
      □ Sermons on Angels
      □ Sermons on Baptism
      □ Sermons on Belief
      □ Sermons on Bible Characters
      □ Sermons on Bible Geography
      □ Sermons on Christian Evidences
      □ Sermons on Christian Living
      □ Sermons on Church Growth
      □ Sermons on Confession
      □ Sermons on Covenants
      □ Sermons on Deity (Godhead)
      □ Sermons on Discipleship
      □ Sermons on Doctrinal Issues
      □ Sermons on Evangelism
      □ Sermons on Faith & Trust
      □ Sermons on Family
      □ Sermons on Forgiveness
      □ Sermons on Giving & Stewardship
      □ Sermons on Glory & Honor
      □ Sermons on Gospel
      □ Sermons on Grace & Mercy
      □ Sermons on Heaven & Hell
      □ Sermons on Hope & Assurance
      □ Sermons on Jesus
      □ Sermons on Justification
      □ Sermons on Love & Compassion
      □ Sermons on Marriage & Family
      □ Sermons on Materialism
      □ Sermons on Meekness & Humility
      □ Sermons on Miracles, Signs, & Wonders
      □ Sermons on Pain & Suffering
      □ Sermons on Peace & Contentment
      □ Sermons on Praise & Worship
      □ Sermons on Prayer
      □ Sermons on Providence
      □ Sermons on Psalms & Singing
      □ Sermons on Relationships
      □ Sermons on Religions of the World
      □ Sermons on Repentance & Restoration
      □ Sermons on Resurrection & Judgment
      □ Sermons on Salvation (Being Saved)
      □ Sermons on Satan & Sin
      □ Sermons on Societal Issues
      □ Sermons on Spiritual Maturity
      □ Sermons on Teachings of Jesus
      □ Sermons on Unity & Fellowship
      □ Sermons on Wisdom
      □ Sermons on Work of the Christian
      □ Sermons on Work of the Church
      □ Sermons on Worship
      □ Sermons on the Assembly of the Saints
      □ Sermons on the Bible & Authority
      □ Sermons on the Church
      □ Sermons on the Kingdom
      □ Sermons on the Revelation of Jesus
      □ Suffering
      □ Women
      □ Works
  • Family Series
      □ 2013

Spiritual Refugees

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint The church is a God ordained
refuge for those seeking deliverance from this world of sin (Eph. 2:12).
However, the practical reality is that too many in the Lord's church have
felt displaced for a variety of reasons, some of whom end up leaving the
congregation or possibly the Lord. What are we to do?

 [spiritual-] [spiritual-]

Pressing Toward the Prize

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint That Jesus came into this world
is biblically SIGNIFICANT but why He came into this world is paramount to our
Christian faith.

 [pressing_t] [pressing_t]

Born to Die

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint That Jesus came into this world
is biblically SIGNIFICANT but why He came into this world is paramount to our
Christian faith.

 [born-to-di] [born-to-di]

Authentic Christianity

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint Many professing Christians want
to be genuine but have difficulty taking off the mask that hides their
weaknesses and sins. Its time for many Christians to take off their masks!

 [Authentic-] [Authentic-]

Joy to the World

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint While many enjoy the holidays
this time of year a number suffer with pain, sorrow, and loneliness. May God
truly bring joy to those suffering through Jesus Christ.

 [Joy-to-the] [Joy-to-the]

Extreme Forgivenss, by Daryl Townsend (11/29/2015)

Listen to the Sermon NOTE: VERY POWERFUL SERMON ON FORGIVENESS, BY DARYL
TOWNSEND (with Off the Chain Ministries in Middleburg, FL. One of the most
ungodly kings in Israel's history and yet God forgave him when he repented. How
about us? Should we forgive people the way God forgave Manasseh?

 [extreme-fo] [extreme-fo]

Traditions, by Mitch Davis (11/22/2015)

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint "Traditions" - they seem to
bring out a lot of reaction and emotion. The fact is that this word can be
labeled "good" or "bad"... let's see how.

 [traditions] [traditions]

Faith is the Victory, by Mitch Davis (11/8/2015)

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint The life of a Christian is not
about superstitions or human wisdom, but pure and simple faith in Jesus Christ
our risen Savior!

 [2015-11-08] [2015-11-08]

Handling Bombs, by Timothy Ruffin (11/01/2015)

Listen to the Sermon It is bound to happen, just when everything is going as
well as it can, a trial "blows up" your perfect life. How you handle the bombs
of life will reflect your walk in the Lord.

 [Tim-Ruffin] [Tim-Ruffin]

Not Persuaded, Though One Rise from the Dead, by Mitch Davis (10/18/2015)

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint Sometimes it simply doesn't
matter. If people don't want to believe that Jesus is the Christ, it won't
matter if they were to have eye-witnesses of His resurrection... they would
still not be persuaded to become a Christian.

 [THOUGH-ONE] [THOUGH-ONE]

From the Preacher's Study

alt text Proverbs 32

We know that there is no Proverbs 32 in the Bible (go ahead, double check if
you...  

alt text The Weightier Matters of the Law

The Law of God is vital to our walk with Him. It’s establishment reveals to
us...  

alt text Wanna Get Involved? Just Do It

Ever heard or said any of the following well intended statements (just finish
the...  

More From the Preacher's Study

Guidance from Our Shepherds

alt text When Is It Time to Appoint Elders and Deacons?

First a congregation must recognize the authority, purpose and need to fill the
roles...  

alt text No Retirement In The Lord’s Work

Our culture in the USA has taught us that you work hard until 65 or 70 and then
it’s...  

alt text Count Your Blessings

For many years we have sung the song “Count Your Many Blessings.” This is a
very...  

More Guidance from Our Shepherds

Events

alt text Summer Series 2014: Questions Jesus Asked

This summer (every Wednesday evening) the church in Franklin is having guest
speakers...  

alt text Simple Soldier Workshop, by Jim Boyd (January 25, 2014)

We look forward to having you join us on Saturday, January 25!   You are
invited...  

alt text Families on the Edge – Family Series for 2013

  Why is there so much chaos in today’s American family? Divorce, lack...  

More Events

Sermons

alt text Spiritual Refugees

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint The church is a God ordained
refuge...  

alt text Pressing Toward the Prize

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint That Jesus came into this
world...  

alt text Born to Die

Listen to the Sermon / Download the PowerPoint That Jesus came into this
world...  

More Sermons

eNews & Updates

Sign up to receive breaking news
as well as receive other site updates!

[Enter your email add][GO]

Featured Video


[service_ti]

  • Subject Categories

    [Select Category                         ]

  • Message Archives

      □ Archived Articles
      □ Archived Sermons
      □ Messengers
      □ Podcasts @ iTunes
  • Resources

      □ Bible Gateway
      □ Bible Maps
      □ Blue Letter Bible
      □ Daily Bible Reading

  • Archived Posts

    Archived Posts [Select Month  ]
  • Subscribe
  • Meta

      □ Log in
      □ Entries RSS
      □ Comments RSS
      □ WordPress.org

Copyright (C) 2011 . Franklin Church of Christ . 324 Franklin Road . Franklin,
TN 37069 . (615) 794-2359 . Revolution City theme by Brian Gardner . Powered by
WordPress . Log in

