
 
  • Home

    Why A Catholic Education

    Welcome to our new Bishop Thomas!

    Formative Outcomes

    Faith Formation

    Our Credo

    Mission Statement

    Accreditation

    Life Skills

    Driving Directions

    Contact Us

  • News/Calendar

    Breakfast & Lunch Menu

    Monthly Calendar

    School Delays & Closings

    School Calendar/Bell Schedule

    Science News

    Alumni

  • Parents

    Bullying Prevention Policy

    Fund Raisers

    Picture Gallery

    Catholic Conference of Ohio

    Dress Code Policy

    Student Supply Lists

  • Preschool

    Preschool 3

    Preschool 4

  • Elementary

    Clovergarten News

    Kindergarten News

    Grade 1 News & Homework

    Grade 2 News & Homework

    Grade 3 News & Homework

    Grade 4 News & Homework

    Grade 5 News & Homework

    Art

    Homework Tips

    Music

  • Middle School

    Grade 6 News & Homework

    Grade 7 News & Homework

    Grade 8 News & Homework

    Media Center

    Art

    Music

    Spanish

    Wellness Program

    Intervention Resources

  • Groups & Organizations

    Development Group

    School Advisory Council

    Student Council

    National Junior Honor Society

    Parent Teacher Organization

    Alumni

    Butterfly Club

    STEM

    Athletics

  • Helpful Links

    Catholic Schools Office

    Diocese of Toledo

    The Catholic Chronicle

    Rosary Cathedral

    Ohio Department of Education

    OCSAA

    The Bryan Times

    City of Bryan

    Bryan City Schools

    The Vatican

We're "Different by Design!"
See our Video. ●

​Listen to our Ad.    [Sound-Off]

  • DIOCESE OF TOLEDO
  • HONEYWELL INSTANT ALERT
  • SCRIP
  • PROTECTING OUR YOUTH WORKSHOPS
  • ANNUAL SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT FUND
  • CATHOLIC CONFERENCE OF OHIO
  • SAINT PATRICK PARISH
  • REDEEMER RADIO
  • OPTIONC

 
[facebook]
Follow us on Facebook!
Click the Like button.
 

[Diocese-RE]

[signup]

[FACTSLogo]

Search
Family Bible Verse:

Our January Bible verse was submitted by the Sanders Family ~

Cory, Brittany and Darius

There is an appointed time for everything, and a time for every affair under
the heavens. A time to give birth, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a
time to uproot the plant. A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to tear
down, and a time to build. A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to
mourn, and a time to dance.

Ecclesiastes 3:1-4

 

  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]
  • [default_pr]

<< Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Pause Play Next >>

RAISING THE STANDARDS FOR OVER 55 YEARS!

Train the young in the way they should go;
even when old, they will not swerve from it. 

Proverbs 22:6

_____________________________________

 

[CSWLogo201]

ANNUAL FUND - ALMOST THERE! Current total: $40,720

Greetings! We come to you as the 2015 Saint Patrick Catholic School Annual Fund
chairmen and would like to remind you of our common goal and responsibility to
keep quality Catholic education alive and thriving in our community. Our Annual
Fund goal is $50,000. We're very close at $40,720!  Please keep your prayerful
and financial support coming and thank you for all you are doing to make
Catholic education a reality in our great community!

 

____________________________________________________________________________________

Dear Fellow Parishioners and Visitors,

We believe in the goodness of Catholic education and have seen the benefits in
our own immediate family. But making the decision to send our kids to St. Pat’s
wasn’t as easy as it might appear. When our first child, Katie, was born, I
(Carol) had already been teaching in the Bryan City Schools for seven years and
knew that it was a wonderful learning institution filled with many dedicated
and effective teachers, staff, and administrators. We knew we would have to
make a very difficult decision when it came time to send our children to
school. In the end, after much prayer and discernment, we said, “We’re
Catholic! Our kids are going to Saint Pat’s.” And so all three of our children
DID go to St. Pat’s and each spent 10 years (from pre-K through 8th grade) at
this wonderful place. And we have never, ever regretted that decision…not even
for a second.

And, in fact, Katie, Kyle and Kristen will all tell you that it was one of the
very best decisions we ever made for them. They KNEW they were receiving an
amazing education and spiritual foundation while they were attending the
school, but they came to even more greatly appreciate it after they had
graduated from St. Pat’s. And that’s because “Different by Design” carries a
ripple. “Different” means “different” spiritual standards, “different” academic
standards, “different” social standards, and “different” character standards.
And they are all good differences.

Some of you might think the differences are radical. But look around. If ever
there was a time to rise up and support Catholic education it is now! We live
in a world where wrong is right, anything goes, self over service reigns, and
faith is flailing. Did you know that 85% of young Catholics stop practicing
their faith within seven years of being confirmed (Matthew Kelly) and that 80%
of cradle Catholics are no longer Catholic by the age of 23 (Forming
Intentional Catholics by Sherry Weddell)? These are sad and shocking statistics
and they should alarm us. Do they?

A couple of weeks ago our family was blessed to go to Philadelphia and attend
the World Meeting of Families. It was an amazing and unforgettable experience!
And, YES, we saw the Pope up close and personal…twice! In fact, we were just
yards from him both times. You could literally feel the Holy Spirit swirling in
our midst as the Pope passed by. Earlier in the week, while attending the
Congress, Rick Warren, author of “The Purpose-Driven Life” was a keynote
speaker. He had this to say:

In today’s society, materialism is idolized, immorality is glamorized, truth is
minimized, sin is normalized, divorce is rationalized, and abortion is
legalized. In TV and movies, crime is legitimized, drug use is minimized,
comedy is vulgarized, and sex is trivialized. In movies, the Bible is
fictionalized, churches are satirized, God is marginalized, and Christians are
demonized. The elderly are dehumanized, the sick are euthanized, the poor are
victimized, the mentally ill are ostracized, immigrants are stigmatized, and
children are tranquilized. In families around the world, our manners are
uncivilized, speech is vulgarized, faith is secularized, and everything is
commercialized. Unfortunately, Christians, you and I, are often disorganized
and demoralized, our faith is compartmentalized, and our witness is
compromised. So what do we need? We need to revitalize our worship, minimize
our differences, mobilize our members, and evangelize the lost, and we need to
re-energize our families.

Wow! (He was very well received.) The glaring question that should come to all
of our minds right now is, “Who is going to stop these trends and how?” A solid
Catholic education is a great defense, and we’ve already got that going for us
at Saint Patrick Catholic School. We just need to keep a great thing going!

Think about it. Isn’t our number one goal in life to get to Heaven and to take
as many people with us as possible? Saint Patrick Catholic School is the very
best educational choice available to support that crucial goal. Remember, no
matter what else might be going right in our life, if we lose Heaven, we lose
EVERYTHING!

That’s why we are coming to you today with a bold request. We are asking that
you prayerfully consider digging deeper into your resources of time, talent,
and treasure to support our goal of raising $50,000 for Saint Patrick Catholic
School Annual Fund so we can continue our excellent heritage of learning,
growing, loving, and serving God through quality Catholic education.

Jesus Himself set the example for us. He made growing in wisdom and faith top
priorities. “And Jesus advanced [in] wisdom and age and favor before God and
man.” (Luke 2:52) Please value Jesus’ mission and act on your convictions! Mike
and I, and the leadership of St. Patrick Catholic Church and school, are
thanking you in advance for your courage, your boldness, your generosity and
your willingness to do your part in keeping the fire of Catholicism blazing and
Saint Patrick Catholic School a place of energizing faith formation and
academic excellence. Don’t forget our most important goal…heaven. How can we
best achieve that goal for ourselves and for all who we know and love?

Our Gospel message this weekend couldn’t be more perfect. “…whoever wishes to
be great among you will be your servant; whoever wishes to be first among you
will be the slave of all. For the Son of Man did not come to be served but to
serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.” (Mark 10: 43-45) Please
consider supporting the Saint Patrick Catholic School Annual Fund when you
receive your mailing this week. We implore you to pray hard…to dig deep…and to
do your part to affect the future in a positive way! Be not afraid!

Thank you and God bless,
Mike & Carol Kurivial

Donations may be sent to: St. Patrick Catholic School, 610 S. Portland St.
Bryan, OH  43506 

 

WELCOME TO SAINT PATRICK CATHOLIC SCHOOL!

[stpatspic3__2_]

Dear Parents and Friends,

Do you desire strong values and high standards for your child? Welcome and
Bienvenido! It is a pleasure to acquaint you with our school. Saint Patrick
Catholic School is located about an hour west of Toledo, Ohio, in the beautiful
community of Bryan.

Saint Patrick Catholic School is a place where students come to know Jesus
through learning His values and living His works.  We form "Smart Disciples"
through:

    +  Full accreditation from the Ohio Catholic School Accrediting
Association.

    +  Rigorous courses of study that exceed the state’s minimum requirements.

                                          +  State of the art technical support
including Smart Boards, Chromebooks and laptops.

                                          +  Art, Music, Physical
Education, Spanish, Technology Education, Robotics, NJHS. 

... and more! Call for a tour today. We look forward to meeting you and sharing
your high standards!

Our parish school educates students in two Preschool programs; Clovergarten
("young fives" Kindergarten readiness); an established All-Day/Five Day
Kindergarten, and Grades One through Eight. We also welcome  members of the
Home School Community to participate in our Fine Arts, Physical Education and
Technology classes.  Our strong faith-formation and academic programs in a
family-oriented community offer smaller class sizes that afford increased
individual attention for students. Reverend James E. Halleron, Pastor, Mrs.
Lisa M. Cinadr, Principal, and a dedicated faculty and staff welcome your
family to the 2015-2016 school year. Please visit our “Classroom Pages” link to
acquaint yourself with our highly qualified and dedicated Teacher-Ministers.

See why we’re “Different by Design!”

Blessings,

Lisa M. Cinadr


 [ocsaa]

Saint Patrick Catholic School is fully accredited by the Ohio Catholic Schools
Accrediting Association.  

In accordance with Federal law and U.S. Department of Agriculture policy, this
institution is prohibited from discriminating on the basis of race, color,
national origin, sex, age, or disability.

(C) 2013, Saint Patrick Catholic School Bryan

Home |  SiteMap |  RSS Feed |  Log-In
