bg image(../background.gif)

Returning now to what I was saying about locutions, these may come from God, in
any of the ways I have mentioned, or they may equally well come from the devil
or from one's own imagination. I will describe, if I can, with the Lord's help,
the signs by which these locutions differ from one another and when they are
dangerous. For there are many people given to prayer who experience them, and I
would not have you think you are doing wrong, sisters, whether or no you give
them credence, when they are only for your own benefit, to comfort you or to
warn you of your faults. In such cases it matters little from whom they proceed
or if they are only fancies. But of one thing I will warn you: do not think
that, even if your locutions come from God, you will for that reason be any the
better. After all, He talked a great deal with the Pharisees: any good you may
gain will depend upon how you profit by what you hear. Unless it agrees
strictly with the Scriptures, take no more notice of it than you would if it
came from the devil himself. The words may, in fact, come only from your weak
imagination, but they must be taken as a temptation against things pertaining
to the Faith and must therefore invariably be resisted so that they may
gradually cease; and cease they will, because they will have little power of
their own.

To return, then, to our first point: whether they come from within, from above
or from without, has nothing to do with their coming from God. The surest signs
that one can have of their doing this are, in my opinion, as follows. The first
and truest is the sense of power and authority which they bear with them, both
in themselves and in the actions which follow them. I will explain myself
further. A soul is experiencing all the interior disturbances and tribulations
which have been described, and all the aridity and darkness of the
understanding. A single word of this kind -- just a "Be not troubled" -- is
sufficient to calm it. No other word need be spoken; a great light comes to it;
and all its trouble is lifted from it, although it had been thinking that, if
the whole world, and all the learned men in the world, were to combine to give
it reasons for not being troubled, they could not relieve it from its distress,
however hard they might strive to do so. Or a soul is distressed because its
confessor, and others, have told it that what it has is a spirit sent by the
devil, and it is full of fear. Yet that single word which it hears: "It is I,
fear not,"[160] takes all its fear from it, and it is most marvellously
comforted, and believes that no one will ever be able to make it feel
otherwise. Or it is greatly exercised because of some important piece of
business and it has no idea how this will turn out. It is then given to
understand that it must be, and all will turn out well; and it acquires a new
confidence and is no longer troubled. And so with many other things.

The second sign is that a great tranquillity dwells in the soul, which becomes
peacefully and devoutly recollected, and ready to sing praises to God. Oh,
Lord, if there is such power in a word sent by one of Thy messengers (for they
say that, in this Mansion, at least, such words are uttered, not by the Lord
Himself, but by some angel), what power wilt Thou not leave in the soul that is
bound to Thee, as art Thou to it, by love.

The third sign is that these words do not vanish from the memory for a very
long time: some, indeed, never vanish at all. Words which we hear on earth -- I
mean, from men, however weighty and learned they may be -- we do not bear so
deeply engraven upon our memory, nor, if they refer to the future, do we give
credence to them as we do to these locutions. For these last impress us by
their complete certainty, in such a way that, although sometimes they seem
quite impossible of fulfilment, and we cannot help wondering if they will come
true or not, and although our understanding may hesitate about it, yet within
the soul itself there is a certainty which cannot be overcome. It may seem to
the soul that everything is moving in the contrary direction to what it had
been led to expect, and yet, even if many years go by, it never loses its
belief that, though God may use other means incomprehensible to men, in the end
what He has said will come true; as in fact it does. None the less, as I say,
the soul is distressed when it sees things going badly astray. It may be some
time since it heard the words; and both their working within it and the
certainty which it had at the time that they came from God have passed away. So
these doubts arise, and the soul wonders if the whole thing came from the
devil, or can have been the work of the imagination. Yet at the time it had no
such doubts and it would have died in defence of their veracity. But, as I say,
all these imaginings must be put into our minds by the devil in order to
distress us and make us fearful, especially if the matter is one in which
obeying the locutions will bring others many blessings, or produce good works
tending greatly to the honour and service of God but presenting considerable
difficulties. What will the devil not do in this case by encouraging such
misgivings? At the very least he will weaken the soul's faith, for it is most
harmful not to believe that God is powerful and can do works which are
incomprehensible to our understanding.

Despite all these conflicts, despite the assertions of some (I refer to
confessors) that these locutions are pure nonsense; and despite all the
unfortunate happenings which may persuade the soul that they cannot come true,
there still remains within it such a living spark of conviction that they will
come true (whence this arises I cannot tell) that, though all other hopes may
be dead, this spark of certainty could not fail to remain alive, even if the
soul wished it to die. And in the end, as I have said, the Lord's word is
fulfilled, and the soul is so happy and glad that it would like to do nothing
but praise His Majesty everlastingly -- much more, however, because it has seen
His assurances come true than because of the occurrence itself, even though
this may be of very great consequence to it.

I do not know why it is, but the soul is so anxious for these assurances to be
proved true that it would not, I think, feel it so much if it were itself
caught in the act of lying -- as though it could do anything more in the matter
than repeat what is said to it! In this connection a certain person used
continually to recall what happened to the prophet Jonas, when he feared that
Ninive was not to be destroyed.[161] Of course, as the locutions come from the
Spirit of God, it is right that we should have this trust in Him, and desire
that He should never be thought false, since He is Supreme Truth. Great,
therefore, is the joy of one who, after a thousand vicissitudes and in the most
difficult circumstances, sees His word come true; such a person may himself
have to suffer great trials on that account, but he would rather do this than
that what he holds the Lord most certainly told him should not come to pass.
Not everybody, perhaps, will have this weakness -- if weakness it is, for I
cannot myself condemn it as wrong.

If the locutions come from the imagination, none of these signs occur, nor is
there any certainty or peace or interior consolation. It might, however, happen
(and I even know of a few people to whom it has happened) that, when a person
is deeply absorbed in the Prayer of Quiet and in spiritual sleep (for some,
because of the weakness of their constitution, or of their imagination, or for
some other reason, are so entirely carried out of themselves in this act of
deep recollection, that they are unconscious of everything external, and all
their senses are in such a state of slumber that they are like a person asleep
-- at times, indeed, they may even be asleep), he thinks that the locutions
come to him in a kind of dream, and sees things and believes that these things
are of God, and the effects of these locutions resemble those of a dream. It
may also happen that, when such a person asks something of Our Lord with a
great love, he thinks that the voices are telling him what he wants to be told;
this does in fact sometimes happen. But anyone who has much experience of
locutions coming from God will not, I think, be deceived in this way by the
imagination.

The devil's locutions are more to be feared than those which come from the
imagination; but, if the locutions are accompanied by the signs already
described, one may be very confident that they are of God, although not to such
an extent that, if what is said is of great importance and involves some action
on the part of the hearer, or matters affecting a third person, one should do
anything about it, or consider doing anything, without taking the advice of a
learned confessor, a man of clear insight and a servant of God, even though one
may understand the locutions better and better and it may become evident that
they are of God. For this is His Majesty's will, so by carrying it out we are
not failing to do what He commands: He has told us that we are to put our
confessor in His place, even when it cannot be doubted that the words are His.
If the matter is a difficult one, these words will help to give us courage and
Our Lord will speak to the confessor and if such is His pleasure will make him
recognize the work of His spirit; if He does not, we have no further
obligations. I consider it very dangerous for a person to do anything but what
he has been told to do and to follow his own opinion in this matter; so I
admonish you, sisters, in Our Lord's name, never to act thus.

There is another way in which the Lord speaks to the soul, which for my own
part I hold to be very certainly genuine, and that is by a kind of intellectual
vision, the nature of which I will explain later. So far down in the depths of
the soul does this contact take place, so clearly do the words spoken by the
Lord seem to be heard with the soul's own faculty of hearing, and so secretly
are they uttered, that the very way in which the soul understands them,
together with the effects produced by the vision itself, convinces it and makes
it certain that no part in the matter is being played by the devil. The
wonderful effects it produces are sufficient to make us believe this; at least
one is sure that the locutions do not proceed from the imagination, and, if one
reflects upon it, one can always be certain of this, for the following reasons.

The first reason is that some locutions are very much clearer than others. The
genuine locution is so clear that, even if it consists of a long exhortation,
the hearer notices the omission of a single syllable, as well as the
phraseology which is used; but in locutions which are created fancifully by the
imagination the voice will be less clear and the words less distinct, they will
be like something heard in a half-dream.

The second reason is that often the soul has not been thinking of what it hears
-- I mean that the voice comes unexpectedly, sometimes even during a
conversation, although it frequently has reference to something that was
passing quickly through the mind or to what one was previously thinking of. But
often it refers to things which one never thought would or could happen, so
that the imagination cannot possibly have invented them, and the soul cannot be
deceived about things it has not desired or wished for or that have never been
brought to its notice.

The third reason is that in genuine locutions the soul seems to be hearing
something, whereas in locutions invented by the imagination someone seems to be
composing bit by bit what the soul wishes to hear.

The fourth reason is that there is a great difference in the words themselves:
in a genuine locution one single word may contain a world of meaning such as
the understanding alone could never put rapidly into human language.

The fifth reason is that frequently, not only can words be heard, but, in a way
which I shall never be able to explain, much more can be understood than the
words themselves convey and this without any further utterance. Of this way of
understanding I shall say more elsewhere; it is a very subtle thing, for which
Our Lord should be praised. Some people (especially one person with experience
of these things, and no doubt others also) have been very dubious about this
way of understanding locutions and about the differences between them, and have
been quite unable to get the matter straight. I know that this person has
thought it all over very carefully, because the Lord has granted her this
favour very frequently indeed; her most serious doubt, which used to occur when
she first experienced it, was whether she was not imagining the whole thing.
When locutions come from the devil their source can be more quickly recognized,
though his wiles are so numerous that he can readily counterfeit the spirit of
light. He will do this, in my view, by pronouncing his words very clearly, so
that there will be no more doubt about their being understood than if they were
being spoken by the spirit of truth. But he will not be able to counterfeit the
effects which have been described, or to leave in the soul this peace or light,
but only restlessness and turmoil. He can do little or no harm if the soul is
humble and does what I have said -- that is, if it refrains from action,
whatever the locutions may say.

If gifts and favours come to it from the Lord, the soul should consider
carefully and see if they make it think any the better of itself; and if, as
the words grow more and more precious, it does not suffer increasing confusion,
it can be sure that the spirit is not of God; for it is quite certain that,
when it is so, the greater the favour the soul receives, the less by far it
esteems itself, the more keenly it remembers its sins, the more forgetful it is
of its own interest, the more fervent are the efforts of its will and memory in
seeking nothing but the honour of God rather than being mindful of its own
profit, and the greater is its fear of departing in the least from the will of
God and its certainty that it has never deserved these favours, but only hell.
When these are the results of all the experiences and favours that come to the
soul in prayer, it need not be afraid, but may rest confidently in the mercy of
the Lord, Who is faithful, and will not allow the devil to deceive it, though
it always does well to retain its misgivings.

It may be that those whom the Lord does not lead by this road think that such
souls need not listen to these words which are addressed to them; that, if they
are interior words, they should turn their attention elsewhere so as not to
hear them; and that in this way they will run no risk of incurring these
perils. My answer is that that is impossible -- and I am not referring now to
locutions invented by the fancy, a remedy for which is to be less anxious about
certain things and to try to take no notice of one's own imaginings. When the
locutions come from God there is no such remedy, for the Spirit Himself, as He
speaks, inhibits all other thought and compels attention to what He says. So I
really think (and I believe this to be true) that it would be easier for
someone with excellent hearing not to hear a person who spoke in a very loud
voice, because he might simply pay no heed and occupy his thought and
understanding with something else. In the case of which we are speaking,
however, that is impossible. We have no ears which we can stop nor have we the
power to refrain from thought; we can only think of what is being said; for He
who was able, at the request of Josue (I think it was), to make the sun stand
still,[162] can still the faculties and all the interior part of the soul in
such a way that the soul becomes fully aware that another Lord, greater than
itself, is governing that Castle and renders Him the greatest devotion and
humility. So it cannot do other than listen: it has no other choice. May His
Divine Majesty grant us to fix our eyes only on pleasing Him and to forget
ourselves, as I have said: Amen. May He grant that I have succeeded in
explaining what I have attempted to explain and that I may have given some help
to any who have experience of these locutions.

CHAPTER IV

    Treats of occasions when God suspends the soul in prayer by means of
    rapture, or ecstasy, or trance (for I think these are all the same), and of
    how great courage is necessary if we are to receive great favours from His
    Majesty.

HOW much rest can this poor little butterfly have amid all these trials and
other things that I have described? Its whole will is set on desiring to have
ever-increasing fruition of its Spouse; and His Majesty, knowing our weakness,
continues to grant it the things it wants, and many more, so that it may have
the courage to achieve union with so great a Lord and to take Him for its
Spouse.

You will laugh at my saying this and call it ridiculous, for you will all think
courage is quite unnecessary and suppose there is no woman, however lowly, who
would not be brave enough to betroth herself to the King. This would be so, I
think, with an earthly king, but for betrothal with the King of Heaven I must
warn you that there is more need of courage than you imagine, because our
nature is very timid and lowly for so great an undertaking, and I am certain
that, unless God granted us strength,[163] it would be impossible. And now you
are going to see what His Majesty does to confirm this betrothal, for this, as
I understand it, is what happens when He bestows raptures, which carry the soul
out of its senses; for if, while still in possession of its senses, the soul
saw that it was so near to such great majesty, it might perhaps be unable to
remain alive. It must be understood that I am referring to genuine raptures,
and not to women's weaknesses, which we all have in this life, so that we are
apt to think everything is rapture and ecstasy. And, as I believe I have said,
there are some people who have such poor constitutions that one experience of
the Prayer of Quiet kills them. I want to enumerate here some different kinds
of rapture which I have got to know about through conversations with spiritual
people. I am not sure if I shall succeed in doing so, any more than when I
wrote of this before.[164] For various reasons it has been thought immaterial
if I should repeat myself in discussing this and other matters connected with
it, if for no other object than that of setting down in one place all that
there is to be said about each Mansion.

One kind of rapture is this. The soul, though not actually engaged in prayer,
is struck by some word, which it either remembers or hears spoken by God. His
Majesty is moved with compassion at having seen the soul suffering so long
through its yearning for Him, and seems to be causing the spark of which we
have already spoken to grow within it, so that, like the phoenix, it catches
fire and springs into new life. One may piously believe that the sins of such a
soul are pardoned, assuming that it is in the proper disposition and has used
the means of grace, as the Church teaches.[165] When it is thus cleansed, God
unites it with Himself, in a way which none can understand save it and He, and
even the soul itself does not understand this in such a way as to be able to
speak of it afterwards, though it is not deprived of its interior senses; for
it is not like one who suffers a swoon or a paroxysm so that it can understand
nothing either within itself or without.

The position, in this case, as I understand it, is that the soul has never
before been so fully awake to the things of God or had such light or such
knowledge of His Majesty. This may seem impossible; because, if the faculties
are so completely absorbed that we might describe them as dead, and the senses
are so as well, how can the soul be said to understand this secret? I cannot
say, nor perhaps can any creature, but only the Creator Himself, nor can I
speak of many other things that happen in this state -- I mean in these two
Mansions, for this and the last might be fused in one: there is no closed door
to separate the one from the other. As, however, there are things in the latter
Mansion which are not shown to those who have not yet reached it, I have
thought it best to separate them.

When the soul is in this state of suspension and the Lord sees fit to reveal to
it certain mysteries, such as heavenly things and imaginary visions, it is able
subsequently to describe these, for they are so deeply impressed upon the
memory that they can never again be forgotten. But when they are intellectual
visions they cannot be so described; for at these times come visions of so
sublime a kind that it is not fitting for those who live on earth to understand
them in such a way that they can describe them; although after regaining
possession of their senses they can often describe many of these intellectual
visions.

It may be that some of you do not understand what is meant by a vision,
especially by an intellectual vision. I shall explain this in due course, as I
have been commanded to do so by him who has authority over me; and although it
may seem irrelevant there may possibly be souls who will find it helpful.
"But," you will say to me, "if the soul is not going to remember these sublime
favours which the Lord grants it in this state, how can they bring it any
profit?" Oh, daughters, the profit is so great that it cannot be exaggerated,
for, although one cannot describe these favours, they are clearly imprinted in
the very depths of the soul and they are never forgotten. "But," you will say
next, "if the soul retains no image of them and the faculties are unable to
understand them, how can they be remembered?" This, too, is more than I can
understand; but I know that certain truths concerning the greatness of God
remains so firmly in the soul that even had it not faith which will tell it Who
He is and that it is bound to believe Him to be God, the soul would adore Him
as such from that very moment, just as Jacob adored Him when he saw the ladder.
[166] He must, of course, have learned other secrets which he could not
describe; for, if he had not had more interior light, he would not have
understood such great mysteries merely from seeing a ladder on which angels
were descending and ascending.

I do not know if I am right in what I am saying, for, although I have heard of
the incident, I am not sure if I remember it correctly. Moses, again, could not
describe all that he saw in the bush, but only as much as God willed him to;
[167] yet, if God had not revealed secret things to his soul in such a way as
to make him sure of their truth, so that he should know and believe Him to be
God, he would not have taken upon himself so many and such arduous labours.
Amid the thorns of that bush he must have learned marvellous things, for it was
these things which gave him courage to do what he did for the people of Israel.
Therefore, sisters, we must not seek out reasons for understanding the hidden
things of God; rather, believing, as we do, in His great power, we must clearly
realize that it is impossible for worms like ourselves, with our limited
powers, to understand His greatness. Let us give Him hearty praise for being
pleased to allow us to understand some part of it.

I am wishing I could find a suitable comparison which would give some sort of
explanation of what I am saying. But I can think of none that will answer my
purpose. Let us put it like this, however. You enter a private apartment in the
palace of a king or a great lord (I think they call it a camari'n), where they
have an infinite variety of glassware, and earthenware, and all kinds of
things, set out in such a way that you can see almost all of them as you enter.
I was once taken into a room of this kind in the house of the Duchess of Alba,
where I was commanded by obedience to stay,[168] in the course of a journey, at
her pressing invitation. When I went in I was astounded and began to wonder
what all this mass of things could be used for, and then I realized that the
sight of so many different things might lead one to glorify the Lord. It occurs
to me now how useful an experience it was for my present purpose. Although I
was there for some time, there was so much to be seen that I could not remember
it all, so that I could no more recall what was in those rooms than if I had
never seen them, nor could I say what the things were made of; I can only
remember having seen them as a whole.[169] It is just like that here. The soul
becomes one with God. It is brought into this mansion of the empyrean Heaven
which we must have in the depths of our souls; for it is clear that, since God
dwells in them, He must have one[170] of these mansions. And although while the
soul is in ecstasy the Lord will not always wish it to see these secrets (for
it is so much absorbed in its fruition of Him that that great blessing suffices
it), He is sometimes pleased that it should emerge from its absorption, and
then it will at once see what there is in this room; in which case, after
coming to itself, it will remember that revelation of the great things it has
seen. It will not, however, be able to describe any of them, nor will its
nature be able to apprehend more of the supernatural than God has been pleased
to reveal to it.

Is this tantamount to an admission on my part that it has really seen something
and that this is an imaginary vision? I do not mean that at all, for it is not
of imaginary, but of intellectual visions that I am treating; only I have no
learning and am too stupid to explain anything; and I am quite clear that, if
what I have said so far about this kind of prayer is put correctly, it is not I
who have said it. My own belief is that, if the soul to whom God has given
these secrets in its raptures never understands any of them, they proceed, not
from raptures at all, but from some natural weakness, which is apt to affect
people of feeble constitution, such as women. In such cases the spirit, by
making a certain effort, can overcome nature and remain in a state of
absorption, as I believe I said when dealing with the Prayer of Quiet. Such
experiences as these have nothing to do with raptures; for when a person is
enraptured you can be sure that God is taking her entire soul to Himself, and
that, as she is His own property and has now become His bride, He is showing
her some little part of the kingdom which she has gained by becoming so. This
part may be only a small one, but everything that is in this great God is very
great. He will not allow her to be disturbed either by the faculties or by the
senses; so He at once commands that all the doors of these Mansions shall be
shut, and only the door of the Mansion in which He dwells remains open so that
we may enter. Blessed be such great mercy! Rightly shall those who will not
profit by it, and who thus forgo the presence of their Lord, be called
accursed.

Oh, my sisters, what nothingness is all that we have given up, and all that we
are doing, or can ever do, for a God Who is pleased to communicate Himself in
this way to a worm! If we have the hope of enjoying this blessing while we are
still in this life, what are we doing about it and why are we waiting? What
sufficient reason is there for delaying even a short time instead of seeking
this Lord, as the Bride did, through streets and squares?[171] Oh, what a
mockery is everything in the world if it does not lead us and help us on the
way towards this end, -- and would be even though all the worldly delights and
riches and joys that we can imagine were to last for ever! For everything is
cloying and degrading by comparison with these treasures, which we shall enjoy
eternally. And even these are nothing by comparison with having for our own the
Lord of all treasures and of Heaven and earth.

Oh, human blindness! How long, how long shall it be before this dust is removed
from our eyes? For although, as far as we ourselves are concerned, it seems not
to be bad enough to blind us altogether, I can see some motes and particles
which, if we allow them to become more numerous, will be sufficient to do us
great harm. For the love of God, then, sisters, let us profit by these faults
and learn from them what wretched creatures we are, and may they give us
clearer sight, as did the clay to the blind man who was healed by our Spouse;
[172] and thus, realizing our own imperfections, we shall beseech Him more and
more earnestly to bring good out of our wretchedness, so that we may please His
Majesty in everything.

Without realizing it, I have strayed far from my theme. Forgive me, sisters;
and believe me, now that I have come to these great things of God (come to
write about them, I mean), I cannot help feeling the pity of it when I see how
much we are losing, and all through our own fault. For, true though it is that
these are things which the Lord gives to whom He will, He would give them to us
all if we loved Him as He loves us. For He desires nothing else but to have
those to whom He may give them, and His riches are not diminished by His
readiness to give.

Returning now to what I was saying, the Spouse orders the doors of the Mansions
to be shut, and even those of the Castle and its enclosure. For when He means
to enrapture this soul, it loses its power of breathing, with the result that,
although its other senses sometimes remain active a little longer, it cannot
possibly speak. At other times it loses all its powers at once, and the hands
and the body grow so cold that the body seems no longer to have a soul --
sometimes it even seems doubtful if there is any breath in the body. This lasts
only for a short time (I mean, only for a short period at any one time)
because, when this profound suspension lifts a little, the body seems to come
partly to itself again, and draws breath, though only to die once more, and, in
doing so, to give fuller life to the soul. Complete ecstasy, therefore, does
not last long.

But, although relief comes, the ecstasy has the effect of leaving the will so
completely absorbed and the understanding so completely transported -- for as
long as a day, or even for several days -- that the soul seems incapable of
grasping anything that does not awaken the will to love; to this it is fully
awake, while asleep as regards all that concerns attachment to any creature.

Oh, what confusion the soul feels when it comes to itself again and what ardent
desires it has to be used for God in any and every way in which He may be
pleased to employ it! If such effects as have been described result from the
former kinds of prayer, what can be said of a favour as great as this? Such a
soul would gladly have a thousand lives so as to use them all for God, and it
would like everything on earth to be tongue so that it might praise Him. It has
tremendous desires to do penance; and whatever penance it does it counts as
very little, for its love is so strong that it feels everything it does to be
of very small account and realizes clearly that it was not such a great matter
for the martyrs to suffer all their tortures, for with the aid of Our Lord such
a thing becomes easy. And thus these souls make complaint to Our Lord when He
offers them no means of suffering.

When this favour is granted them secretly they esteem it very highly; for so
great are the shame and the confusion caused them by having to suffer before
others that to some extent they lessen the soul's absorption in what it was
enjoying, because of the distress and the anxiety which arise from its thoughts
of what others who have seen it will think. For, knowing the malice of the
world, they realize that their suffering may perhaps not be attributed to its
proper cause but may be made an occasion for criticism instead of for
glorifying the Lord. This distress and shame are no longer within the soul's
own power of control, yet they seem to me to denote a lack of humility; for if
such a person really desires to be despitefully treated, how can she mind if
she is? One who was distressed in this way heard Our Lord say: "Be not
afflicted, for either they will praise Me or murmur at thee, and in either case
thou wilt be the gainer."[173] I learned afterwards that that person had been
greatly cheered and consoled by those words; and I set them down here for the
sake of any who find themselves in this affliction. It seems that Our Lord
wants everyone to realize that such a person's soul is now His and that no one
must touch it. People are welcome to attack her body, her honour, and her
possessions, for any of these attacks will be to His Majesty's honour. But her
soul they may not attack, for unless, with most blameworthy presumption, it
tears itself away from its Spouse, He will protect it from the whole world, and
indeed from all hell.

I do not know if I have conveyed any impression of the nature of rapture: to
give a full idea of it, as I have said, is impossible. Still, I think there has
been no harm in my saying this, so that its nature may be understood, since the
effects of feigned raptures are so different. (I do not use the word "feigned"
because those who experience them wish to deceive, but because they are
deceived themselves.)[174]

As the signs and effects of these last do not harmonize with the reception of
this great favour, the favour itself becomes discredited, so that those to whom
the Lord grants it later on are not believed. May He be for ever blessed and
praised. Amen. Amen.

CHAPTER V

    Continues the same subject and gives an example of how God exalts the soul
    through flights of the spirit in a way different from that described. Gives
    some reasons why courage is necessary here. Says something of this favour
    which God grants in a way so delectable. This chapter is highly profitable.

THERE is another kind of rapture, or flight of the spirit, as I call it, which,
though substantially the same, is felt within the soul[175] in a very different
way. Sometimes the soul becomes conscious of such rapid motion that the spirit
seems to be transported with a speed which, especially at first, fills it with
fear, for which reason I told you that great courage is necessary for anyone in
whom God is to work these favours, together with faith and confidence and great
resignation, so that Our Lord may do with the soul as He wills. Do you suppose
it causes but little perturbation to a person in complete possession of his
senses when he experiences these transports of the soul? We have even read in
some authors that the body is transported as well as the soul, without knowing
whither it is going, or who is bearing it away, or how, for when this sudden
motion begins the soul has no certainty that it is caused by God.

Can any means of resisting this be found? None whatever: on the contrary,
resistance only makes matters worse. This I know from a certain person who said
that God's will seems to be to show the soul that, since it has so often and so
unconditionally placed itself in His hands, and has offered itself to Him with
such complete willingness, it must realize that it is no longer its own
mistress, and so the violence with which it is transported becomes markedly
greater. This person, therefore, decided to offer no more resistance than a
straw does when it is lifted up by amber (if you have ever observed this) and
to commit herself into the hands of Him Who is so powerful, seeing that it is
but to make a virtue of necessity. And, speaking of straw, it is a fact that a
powerful man cannot bear away a straw more easily than this great and powerful
Giant of ours can bear away the spirit.

I think that basin of water, of which we spoke in (I believe) the fourth
Mansion (but I do not remember exactly where),[176] was being filled at that
stage gently and quietly -- I mean without any movement. But now this great
God, Who controls the sources of the waters and forbids the sea to move beyond
its bounds, has loosed the sources whence water has been coming into this
basin; and with tremendous force there rises up so powerful a wave that this
little ship -- our soul -- is lifted up on high. And if a ship can do nothing,
and neither the pilot nor any of the crew has any power over it, when the waves
make a furious assault upon it and toss it about at their will, even less able
is the interior part of the soul to stop where it likes, while its senses and
faculties can do no more than has been commanded them: the exterior senses,
however, are quite unaffected by this.

Really, sisters, the mere writing of this makes me astounded when I reflect how
the great power of this great King and Emperor manifests itself here. What,
then, must be the feelings of anyone who experiences it? For my own part I
believe that, if His Majesty were to reveal Himself to those who journey
through the world to their perdition as He does to these souls, they would not
dare -- out of very fear, though not perhaps out of love -- to offend Him. Oh,
how great, then, are the obligations attending souls who have been warned in so
sublime a way to strive with all their might so as not to offend this Lord! For
His sake, sisters, I beseech you, to whom His Majesty has granted these favours
or others like them, not merely to receive them and then grow careless, but to
remember that anyone who owes much has much to pay.[177]

This is another reason why the soul needs great courage, for the thought is one
which makes it very fearful, and, did Our Lord not give it courage, it would
continually be in great affliction. When it reflects what His Majesty is doing
with it, and then turns to reflect upon itself, it realizes what a little it is
doing towards the fulfilment of its obligations and how feeble is that little
which it does do and how full of faults and failures. If it does any good
action, rather than remember how imperfect this action is, it thinks best to
try to forget it, to keep nothing in mind but its sins, and to throw itself
upon the mercy of God; and, since it has nothing with which to pay, it craves
the compassion and mercy which He has always shown to sinners.

He may perhaps answer it as He answered someone who was very much distressed
about this, and was looking at a crucifix and thinking that she had never had
anything to offer God or to give up for His sake. The Crucified Himself
comforted her by saying that He was giving her all the pains and trials which
He had suffered in His Passion, so that she should have them for her own to
offer to His Father.[178] That soul, as I have understood from her, was so much
comforted and enriched by this experience that she cannot forget it, and,
whenever she feels miserable, she remembers it and it comforts and encourages
her. There are several other remarks on this subject which I might add; for, as
I have had to do with many saintly and prayerful people, I know of a number of
such cases, but I do not want you to think that it is to myself that I am
referring, so I pass them over. This incident which I have described seems to
me a very apt one for helping you to understand how glad Our Lord is when we
get to know ourselves and keep trying all the time to realize our poverty and
wretchedness, and to reflect that we possess nothing that we have not been
given. Therefore, my sisters, courage is necessary for this and for many other
things that happen to a soul which the Lord has brought to this state; and, to
my thinking, if the soul is humble, more courage is necessary for this last
state than for any other. May the Lord, of His own bounty, grant us humility.

Turning now to this sudden transport of the spirit, it may be said to be of
such a kind that the soul really seems to have left the body; on the other
hand, it is clear that the person is not dead, though for a few moments he
cannot even himself be sure if the soul is in the body or no. He feels as if he
has been in another world, very different from this in which we live, and has
been shown a fresh light there, so much unlike any to be found in this life
that, if he had been imagining it, and similar things, all his life long, it
would have been impossible for him to obtain any idea of them. In a single
instant he is taught so many things all at once that if he were to labour for
years on end in trying to fit them all into his imagination and thought, he
could not succeed with a thousandth part of them. This is not an intellectual,
but an imaginary vision, which is seen with the eyes of the soul very much more
clearly than we can ordinarily see things with the eyes of the body; and some
of the revelations are communicated to it without words. If, for examples he
sees any of the saints, he knows them as well as if he had spent a long time in
their company.

Sometimes, in addition to the things which he sees with the eyes of the soul,
in intellectual vision, others are revealed to him -- in particular, a host of
angels, with their Lord; and, though he sees nothing with the eyes of the body
or with the eyes of the soul, he is shown the things I am describing and many
others which are indescribable, by means of an admirable kind of knowledge.
Anyone who has experience of this, and possesses more ability than I, will
perhaps know how to express it; to me it seems extremely difficult. If the soul
is in the body or not while all this is happening I cannot say; I would not
myself swear that the soul is in the body, nor that the body is bereft of the
soul.

I have often thought that if the sun can remain in the heavens and yet its rays
are so strong that without its moving thence they can none the less reach us
here, it must be possible for the soul and the spirit, which are as much the
same thing as are the sun and its rays, to remain where they are, and yet,
through the power of the heat that comes to them from the true Sun of Justice,
for some higher part of them to rise above itself. Really, I hardly know what I
am saying; but it is a fact that, as quickly as a bullet leaves a gun when the
trigger is pulled, there begins within the soul a flight (I know no other name
to give it) which, though no sound is made, is so clearly a movement that it
cannot possibly be due to fancy. When the soul, as far as it can understand, is
right outside itself, great things are revealed to it; and, when it returns to
itself, it finds that it has reaped very great advantages and it has such
contempt for earthly things that, in comparison with those it has seen, they
seem like dirt to it. Thenceforward to live on earth is a great affliction to
it, and, if it sees any of the things which used to give it pleasure, it no
longer cares for them. Just as tokens of the nature of the Promised Land were
brought back by those whom the Israelites sent on there,[179] so in this case
the Lord's wish seems to have been to show the soul something of the country to
which it is to travel, so that it may suffer the trials of this trying road,
[180] knowing whither it must travel in order to obtain its rest. Although you
may think that a thing which passes so quickly cannot be of great profit, the
help which it gives the soul is so great that only the person familiar with it
can understand its worth.

Clearly, then, this is no work of the devil; such an experience could not
possibly proceed from the imagination, and the devil could never reveal things
which produce such results in the soul and leave it with such peace and
tranquillity and with so many benefits. There are three things in particular
which it enjoys to a very high degree. The first is knowledge of the greatness
of God: the more we see of this, the more deeply we are conscious of it. The
second is self-knowledge and humility at realizing how a thing like the soul,
so base by comparison with One Who is the Creator of such greatness, has dared
to offend Him and dares to raise its eyes to Him. The third is a supreme
contempt for earthly things, save those which can be employed in the service of
so great a God.

These are the jewels which the Spouse is beginning to give to His bride, and so
precious are they that she will not fail to keep them with the greatest care.
These meetings[181] with the Spouse remain so deeply engraven in the memory
that I think it is impossible for the soul to forget them until it is enjoying
them for ever; if it did so, it would suffer the greatest harm. But the Spouse
Who gives them to the soul has power also to give it grace not to lose them.

Returning now to the soul's need of courage, I ask you: Does it seem to you
such a trifling thing after all? For the soul really feels that it is leaving
the body when it sees the senses leaving it and has no idea why they are going.
So He Who gives everything else must needs give courage too. You will say that
this fear of the soul's is well rewarded; so too say I. May He Who can give so
much be for ever praised. And may it please His Majesty to grant us to be
worthy to serve Him. Amen.

CHAPTER VI

    Describes one effect of the prayer referred to in the last chapter, by
    which it will be known that it is genuine and no deception. Treats of
    another favour which the Lord grants to the soul so that He may use it to
    sing His praises.

HAVING won such great favours, the soul is so anxious to have complete fruition
of their Giver that its life becomes sheer, though delectable, torture. It has
the keenest longings for death, and so it frequently and tearfully begs God to
take it out of this exile. Everything in this life that it sees wearies it;
when it finds itself alone it experiences great relief, but immediately this
distress returns till it hardly knows itself when it is without it. In short,
this little butterfly can find no lasting repose; indeed, her love is so full
of tenderness that any occasion whatever which serves to increase the strength
of this fire causes the soul to take flight; and thus in this Mansion raptures
occur continually and there is no way of avoiding them, even in public.
Further, although the soul would fain be free from tears, these persecutions
and murmurings never leave her; for these all kinds of persons are responsible,
especially confessors.

Although on the one hand she seems to be feeling great interior security,
especially when alone with God, on the other hand she is in great distress, for
she is afraid that the devil may be going to deceive her so that she shall
offend Him for Whom she has such love. She is not hurt by what people say about
her except when her own confessor blames her, as though she could prevent these
raptures. She does nothing but beg everyone to pray for her and beseech His
Majesty to lead her by another road, as she is advised to do, since the road
she is on is very dangerous. But she has gained so much from following it (for
she cannot help seeing, and she reads and hears and learns from the
commandments of God that it leads to Heaven) that, try as she may, she feels
unable to desire any other; all she wants to do is to leave herself in His
hands. And even this impotence of will distresses her, because she thinks she
is not obeying her confessor, for she believes that her only remedy against
deception consists in obeying and not offending Our Lord. So she feels that she
would not intentionally commit so much as a venial sin, even were she to be cut
in pieces; and thus she is greatly distressed to find that, without being aware
of the fact, she cannot avoid committing a great many.

God gives these souls the keenest desire not to displease Him in any respect
whatsoever, however trivial, or to commit so much as an imperfection if they
can avoid doing so. For this reason alone, if for no other, the soul would like
to flee from other people, and greatly envies those who lived, or have lived,
in deserts. On the other hand it would like to plunge right into the heart of
the world, to see if by doing this it could help one soul to praise God more; a
woman in this state will be distressed at being prevented from doing this by
the obstacle of sex and very envious of those who are free to cry aloud and
proclaim abroad Who is this great God of Hosts.

Oh, poor little butterfly, bound by so many fetters, which prevent you from
flying whithersoever you will! Have pity on her, my God; and dispose things so
that she may be able to do something towards fulfilling her desires to Thy
honour and glory. Remember not the slightness of her merits and the baseness of
her nature. Mighty art Thou, Lord, for Thou didst make the great sea to draw
back, and the great Jordan, and didst allow the Children of Israel to pass over
them.[182] And yet Thou needest not have pity on her, for, with the aid of Thy
strength, she is capable of enduring many trials. And this she is determined to
do: to suffer them is her desire. Stretch out Thy mighty arm, O Lord, and let
not her life be spent in things so base. Let Thy greatness appear in this
creature, womanish and base though she is, so that men may realize that nothing
she does comes from herself and may give Thee praise. Cost what it may, it is
this that she desires, and she would give a thousand lives, if she had them, so
that on her account one soul might praise Thee a little more. She would
consider them all well spent, for she knows that in actual fact she deserves
not to suffer the very smallest trial for Thy sake, still less to die for Thee.

I do not know why I have said this, sisters, nor to what purpose, for I have
not understood it all myself. It should be realized that such, without any kind
of doubt, are the effects which remain after these suspensions or ecstasies;
the desires they inspire are not fleeting but permanent; and when any
opportunity occurs of demonstrating the fact, it becomes evident that the
experience was not feigned. You may ask why I use the word "permanent", since
sometimes and in the most trifling matters the soul feels cowardly, and is so
fearful and devoid of courage that it seems impossible it can be courageous
enough to do anything whatsoever. But this, I take it, occurs at a time when
the Lord leaves it to its own nature -- an experience which is extremely good
for it, making it realize that any usefulness it may have had has been a gift
bestowed upon it by His Majesty. And this it realizes with a clearness which
annihilates any self-interest in it and imbues it with a greater knowledge of
the mercy of God and of His greatness, which He has been pleased to demonstrate
to it in so small a matter. But more usually it is as we have already said.

Note one thing, sisters, concerning these great desires of the soul to see Our
Lord: that they will sometimes oppress you so much that you must not encourage
them but put them from you -- if you can, I mean; because there are other
desires, of which I shall write later, which cannot possibly be so treated, as
you will see. These of which I am now speaking it is sometimes possible to put
from you, since the reason is free to resign itself to the will of God, and you
can echo the words of Saint Martin[183]; in such a case, where the desires are
very oppressive, the thoughts may be deflected from them. For, as such desires
are apparently found in souls which are very proficient, the devil might
encourage them in us, so as to make us think ourselves proficient too; and it
is always well to proceed with caution. But I do not myself believe he could
ever fill the soul with the quietness and peace caused it by this distress; the
feelings he arouses are apt to be passionate ones, like those which we
experience when we are troubled about things of the world. Anyone without
experience of each kind of distress will not understand that, and, thinking it
a great thing to feel like this, will stimulate the feeling as much as
possible. To do this, however, may be to injure the health, for the distress is
continuous, or, at the least, occurs with great frequency.

Note also that distress of this kind is apt to be caused by weak health,
especially in emotional people, who weep for the slightest thing; again and
again they will think they are weeping for reasons which have to do with God
but this will not be so in reality. It may even be the case (I mean when they
shed floods of tears -- and for some time they cannot refrain from doing so
whenever they think of God or hear Him spoken of) that some humour has been
oppressing the heart, and that it is this, rather than their love of God, which
has excited their tears. It seems as if they will never make an end of weeping,
having come to believe that tears are good, they make no attempt to control
them. In fact, they would not do otherwise than weep even if they could, and
they make every effort they can to induce tears. The devil does his best, in
such cases, to weaken them, so that they may be unable either to practise
prayer or to keep their Rule.

I seem to hear you asking whatever you are to do, as I am telling you there is
danger in everything. If I think deception possible in anything as beneficial
as shedding tears may I not be deceived myself? Yes, of course I may; but,
believe me, I am not talking without having observed this in certain persons. I
have never been like it myself, however, for I am not in the least emotional;
on the contrary, my hardness of heart sometimes worries me; though, when the
fire within my soul is strong, however hard my heart may be, it distils as if
in an alembic. You will easily recognize when tears arise from this source,
because they are comforting and tranquillizing rather than disturbing, and
seldom do any harm. The great thing about this deception, when such it is, will
be that, although it may harm the body, it cannot (if the soul is humble, I
mean) hurt the soul. If it is not humble, it will do it no harm to keep its
suspicions.

Do not let us suppose that if we weep a great deal we have done everything that
matters; let us also set to and work hard, and practise the virtues, for these
are what we most need. Let the tears come when God is pleased to send them: we
ourselves should make no efforts to induce them. They will leave this dry
ground of ours well watered and will be of great help in producing fruit; but
the less notice we take of them, the more they will do, because they are the
water which comes from Heaven.[184] When we ourselves draw water, we tire
ourselves by digging for it, and the water we get is not the same; often we dig
till we wear ourselves out without having discovered so much as a pool of
water, still less a wellspring. For this reason, sisters, I think our best plan
is to place ourselves in the Lord's presence, meditate upon His mercy and grace
and upon our own lowliness, and leave Him to give us what He wills, whether it
be water or aridity. He knows best what is good for us, and in this way we
shall walk in tranquillity and the devil will have less opportunity to fool us.

Together with these things, which are at once distressing and delectable, Our
Lord sometimes bestows upon the soul a jubilation and a strange kind of prayer,
the nature of which it cannot ascertain. I set this down here, so that, if He
grants you this favour, you may give Him hearty praise and know that such a
thing really happens. I think the position is that the faculties are in close
union, but that Our Lord leaves both faculties and senses free to enjoy this
happiness, without understanding what it is that they are enjoying and how they
are enjoying it. That sounds nonsense but it is certainly what happens. The joy
of the soul is so exceedingly great that it would like, not to rejoice in God
in solitude, but to tell its joy to all, so that they may help it to praise Our
Lord, to which end it directs its whole activity. Oh, what high festival such a
one would make to this end and how she would show forth her joy, if she could,
so that all should understand it! For she seems to have found herself, and,
like the father of the Prodigal Son,[185] she would like to invite everybody
and have great festivities because she sees her soul in a place which she
cannot doubt is a place of safety, at least for a time. And, for my own part, I
believe she is right; for such interior joy in the depths of the soul's being,
such peace and such happiness that it calls upon all to praise God cannot
possibly have come from the devil.

Impelled as it is by this great joy, the soul cannot be expected to keep
silence and dissemble: it would find this no light distress. That must have
been the state of mind of Saint Francis, when robbers met him as he was going
about the countryside crying aloud and he told them that he was the herald of
the great King. Other saints retire to desert places, where they proclaim the
same thing as Saint Francis -- namely, the praises of their God. I knew one of
these, called Fray Peter of Alca'ntara. Judging from the life he led, I think
he is certainly a saint, yet those who heard him from time to time called him
mad. Oh, what a blessed madness, sisters! If only God would give it to us all!
And how good He has been to you in placing you where, if the Lord should grant
you this grace and you show others that He has done so, you will not be spoken
against as you would be in the world (where there are so few to proclaim God's
praise that it is not surprising if they are spoken against,) but will be
encouraged to praise Him the more.

Oh, unhappy are the times and miserable is the life which we now live, and
happy are those who have had the good fortune to escape from it! Sometimes it
makes me specially glad when we are together and I see these sisters of mine so
full of inward joy that each vies with the rest in praising Our Lord for
bringing her to the convent; it is very evident that those praises come from
the inmost depths of the soul. I should like you to praise Him often, sisters,
for, when one of you begins to do so, she arouses the rest. How can your
tongues be better employed, when you are together, than in the praises of God,
which we have so many reasons for rendering Him?

May it please His Majesty often to bestow this prayer upon us since it brings
us such security and such benefit. For, as it is an entirely supernatural
thing, we cannot acquire it. It may last for a whole day, and the soul will
then be like one who has drunk a great deal, but not like a person so far
inebriated as to be deprived of his senses; nor will it be like a melancholiac,
who, without being entirely out of his mind, cannot forget a thing that has
been impressed upon his imagination, from which no one else can free him
either. These are very unskilful comparisons to represent so precious a thing,
but I am not clever enough to think out any more: the real truth is that this
joy makes the soul so forgetful of itself, and of everything, that it is
conscious of nothing, and able to speak of nothing, save of that which proceeds
from its joy -- namely, the praises of God. Let us join with this soul, my
daughters all. Why should we want to be more sensible than she? What can give
us greater pleasure than to do as she does? And may all the creatures join with
us for ever and ever. Amen, amen, amen.

CHAPTER VII

    Treats of the kind of grief felt for their sins by the souls to Whom God
    grants the favours aforementioned. Says that, however spiritual people may
    be, it is a great mistake for them not to practise keeping in mind the
    Humanity of Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, His most sacred Passion and
    life, and His glorious Mother and the Saints. This chapter is of great
    profit.

You will think, sisters, that these souls to whom the Lord communicates Himself
in so special a way (I am speaking now particularly to those who have not
attained these favours, for if they have been granted the enjoyment of such
favours by God, they will know what I am about to say) will by now be so sure
that they are to enjoy Him for ever that they will have no reason to fear or to
weep for their sins. This will be a very great mistake, for, the more they
receive from our God, the greater grows their sorrow for sin; I believe myself
that this will never leave us until we reach that place where nothing can cause
us affliction.

It is true that this sorrow can be more oppressive at one time than at another,
and also that it is of different kinds, for the soul does not now think of the
pain which it is bound to suffer on account of its sins, but only of how
ungrateful it has been to Him Whom it owes so much, and Who so greatly merits
our service. For through these manifestations of His greatness which He
communicates to it the soul gains a much deeper knowledge of the greatness of
God. It is aghast at having been so bold; it weeps for its lack of reverence;
its foolish mistakes in the past seem to it to have been so gross that it
cannot stop grieving, when it remembers that it forsook so great a Majesty for
things so base. It thinks of this much more than of the favours it receives,
great as they are like those which we have described and like those which
remain to be described later. It is as if a mighty river were running through
the soul and from time to time bringing these favours with it. But its sins are
like the river's slimy bed; they are always fresh in its memory, and this is a
heavy cross to it.

I know of a person who had ceased wishing she might die so as to see God, but
was desiring death in order that she might not suffer such constant distress at
the thought of her ingratitude to One to Whom her debts were so great. She
thought nobody's evil deeds could equal hers, for she believed there was no one
with whom God had borne for so long and to whom He had shown so many favours.

With regard to fear of hell, these souls have none; they are sometimes sorely
oppressed by the thought that they may lose God, but this happens seldom. Their
sole fear is that God may let them out of His hand and that they may then
offend Him, and thus find themselves in as miserable a state as before. They
have no anxiety about their own pain or glory. If they desire not to stay long
in Purgatory, it is less for the pain which they will have to suffer than
because while they are there they will not be with God.

However favoured by God a soul may be, I should not think it secure were it to
forget the miserable state it was once in, for, distressing though the
reflection is, it is often profitable. Perhaps it is because I myself have been
so wicked that I feel like this and for that reason always keep it in mind;
those who have been good will have nothing to grieve for, although for as long
as we live in this mortal body we shall always have failures. It affords us no
relief from this distress to reflect that Our Lord has forgiven and forgotten
our sins; in fact the thought of so much goodness and of favours granted to one
who has merited only hell makes the distress greater. I think these reflections
must have been a regular martyrdom for Saint Peter and for the Magdalen;
because, as their love was so great and they had received so many favours and
had learned to understand the greatness and majesty of God, they would find
them terribly hard to bear, and must have been moved with the deepest emotion.

You will also think that anyone who enjoys such sublime favours will not engage
in meditation on the most sacred Humanity of Our Lord Jesus Christ, because by
that time he will be wholly proficient in love. This is a thing of which I have
written at length elsewhere,[186] and, although I have been contradicted about
it and told that I do not understand it, because these are paths along which
Our Lord leads us, and that, when we have got over the first stages, we shall
do better to occupy ourselves with matters concerning the Godhead and to flee
from corporeal things, they will certainly not make me admit that this is a
good way. I may be wrong and we may all be meaning the same thing; but it was
clear to me that the devil was trying to deceive me in this way, and I have had
to learn my lesson. So, although I have often spoken about this,[187] I propose
to speak to you about it again, so that you may walk very warily. And observe
that I am going so far as to advise you not to believe anyone who tells you
otherwise. I will try to explain myself better than I did before. If by any
chance a certain person has written about it, as he said he would, it is to be
hoped that he has explained it more fully; to write about it in a general way
to those of us who are not very intelligent may do a great deal of harm.

Some souls also imagine that they cannot dwell upon the Passion, in which case
they will be able still less to meditate upon the most sacred Virgin and the
lives of the saints, the remembrance of whom brings us such great profit and
encouragement. I cannot conceive what they are thinking of; for, though angelic
spirits, freed from everything corporeal, may remain permanently enkindled in
love, this is not possible for those of us who live in this mortal body. We
need to cultivate, and think upon, and seek the companionship of those who,
though living on earth like ourselves, have accomplished such great deeds for
God; the last thing we should do is to withdraw of set purpose from our
greatest help and blessing, which is the most sacred Humanity of Our Lord Jesus
Christ. I cannot believe that people can really do this; it must be that they
do not understand themselves and thus do harm to themselves and to others. At
any rate, I can assure them that they will not enter these last two Mansions;
for, if they lose their Guide, the good Jesus, they will be unable to find
their way; they will do well if they are able to remain securely in the other
Mansions. For the Lord Himself says that He is the Way;[188] the Lord also says
that He is light[189] and that no one can come to the Father save by Him;[190]
and "he that seeth Me seeth my Father."[191] It may be said that these words
have another meaning. I do not know of any such meaning myself; I have got on
very well with the meaning which my soul always feels to be the true one.

There are some people (and a great many of them have spoken to me about this)
on whom Our Lord bestows perfect contemplation and who would like to remain in
possession of it for ever. That is impossible; but they retain something of
this Divine favour, with the result that they can no longer meditate upon the
mysteries of the Passion and the life of Christ, as they could before. I do not
know the reason for this, but it is quite a common experience in such cases for
the understanding to be less apt for meditation. I think the reason must be
that the whole aim of meditation is to seek God, and once He is found, and the
soul grows accustomed to seeking Him again by means of the will, it has no
desire to fatigue itself with intellectual labour. It also seems to me that, as
the will is now enkindled, this generous faculty would have no desire to make
use of that other faculty,[192] even if it could. There would be nothing wrong
in its setting it aside, but it is impossible for it to do so, especially
before the soul has reached these last Mansions, and it will only lose time by
attempting it, for the aid of the understanding is often needed for the
enkindling of the will.

Note this point, sisters, for it is important, so I will explain it further.
The soul is desirous of employing itself wholly in love and it would be glad if
it could meditate on nothing else. But this it cannot do even if it so desires;
for, though the will is not dead, the fire which habitually kindles it is going
out, and, if it is to give off heat of itself, it needs someone to fan it into
flame. Would it be a good thing for the soul to remain in that state of
aridity, hoping for fire to come down from Heaven to burn up this sacrifice of
itself which it is making to God as did our father Elias?[193] No, certainly
not; nor is it a good thing to expect miracles: the Lord will perform them for
this soul when He sees fit to do so, as has been said and as will be said again
later. But His Majesty wants us to realize our wickedness, which makes us
unworthy of their being wrought, and to do everything we possibly can to come
to our own aid. And I believe myself that, however sublime our prayer may be,
we shall have to do this until we die.

It is true that anyone whom Our Lord brings to the seventh Mansion very rarely,
or never, needs to engage in this activity, for the reason that I shall set
down, if I remember to do so, when I come to deal with that Mansion, where in a
wonderful way the soul never ceases to walk with Christ our Lord but is ever in
the company of both His Divine and His human nature. When, therefore, the
aforementioned fire is not kindled in the will, and the presence of God is not
felt, we must needs seek it, since this is His Majesty's desire, as the Bride
sought it in the Songs.^194 Let us ask the creatures who made them, as Saint
Augustine says that he did (in his Meditations or Confessions,^195 I think) and
let us not be so foolish as to lose time by waiting to receive what has been
given us once already. At first it may be that the Lord will not give it us,
for as long as a year, or even for many years: His Majesty knows why; it is not
our business to want to know, nor is there any reason why we should. Since we
know the way we have to take to please God -- namely, that of keeping His
commandments and counsels -- let us be very diligent in doing this, and in
meditating upon His life and death, and upon all that we owe Him; and let the
rest come when the Lord wills.

Such people will reply that they cannot stop to meditate upon these things, and
here they may to some extent be right, for the reason already given. You know,
of course, that it is one thing to reason with the understanding and quite
another for the memory to represent truths to the understanding. You will say,
perhaps, that you do not understand me, and it may very well be that I do not
understand the matter myself sufficiently to be able to explain it; but I will
deal with it as well as I can. By meditation I mean prolonged reasoning with
the understanding, in this way. We begin by thinking of the favour which God
bestowed upon us by giving us His only Son; and we do not stop there but
proceed to consider the mysteries of His whole glorious life. Or we begin with
the prayer in the Garden and go on rehearsing the events that follow until we
come to the Crucifixion. Or we take one episode of the Passion -- Christ's
arrest, let us say -- and go over this mystery in our mind, meditating in
detail upon the points in it which we need to think over and to try to realize,
such as the treason of Judas, the flight of the Apostles, and so on. This is an
admirable and a most meritorious kind of prayer.

This is the kind of prayer I was referring to which those whom God has raised
to supernatural things and to perfect contemplation are right in saying they
cannot practise. As I have said, I do not know why this should be the case; but
as a rule they are in fact unable to do so. A man will not be right, however,
to say that he cannot dwell upon these mysteries, for he often has them in his
mind, especially when they are being celebrated by the Catholic Church; nor is
it possible that a soul which has received so much from God should forget all
these precious signs of His love, for they are living sparks which will
enkindle the soul more and more in its love for Our Lord. But these mysteries
will not be apprehended by the understanding: the soul will understand them in
a more perfect way. First, the understanding will picture them to itself, and
then they will be impressed upon the memory, so that the mere sight of the Lord
on His knees, in the Garden, covered with that terrible sweat, will suffice us,
not merely for an hour, but for many days. We consider, with a simple regard,
Who He is and how ungrateful we have been to One Who has borne such pain for
us. Then the will is aroused, not perhaps with deep emotion but with a desire
to make some kind of return for this great favour, and to suffer something for
One Who has suffered so much Himself. And so it is with other subjects, in
which both memory and understanding will have a place. This, I think, is why
the soul cannot reason properly about the Passion, and it is because of this
that it believes itself unable to meditate upon it at all.

But if it does not already meditate in this way, it will be well advised to
attempt to do so; for I know that the most sublime kind of prayer will be no
obstacle to it and I believe omission to practise it often would be a great
mistake. If while the soul is meditating the Lord should suspend it, well and
good; for in that case He will make it cease meditation even against its own
will. I consider it quite certain that this method of procedure is no hindrance
to the soul but a great help to it in everything that is good; whereas, if it
laboured hard at meditation in the way I have already described, this would
indeed be a hindrance -- in fact, I believe such labour is impossible for a
person who has attained greater heights. This may not be so with everyone,
since God leads souls by many ways, but those who are unable to take this road
should not be condemned or judged incapable of enjoying the great blessings
contained in the mysteries of Jesus Christ our Good. No one, however spiritual,
will persuade me that to neglect these mysteries can be profitable for him.

Some souls, at the beginning of the spiritual life, or even when well advanced
in it, get as far as the Prayer of Quiet, and are about to enjoy the favours
and consolations given by the Lord in that state, and then think it would be a
very great thing to be enjoying these gifts all the time. Let them take my
advice, and become less absorbed in them, as I have said elsewhere.[196] For
life is long and there are many trials in it and we have need to look at Christ
our Pattern, and also at His Apostles and Saints, and to reflect how they bore
these trials, so that we, too, may bear them perfectly. The good Jesus is too
good company for us to forsake Him and His most sacred Mother. He is very glad
when we grieve for His afflictions although sometimes we may be forsaking our
own pleasures and consolations in order to do so -- though for that matter,
daughters, consolations in prayer are not so frequent that there is not time
for everything. If anyone told me that she experienced them continuously (I
mean so continuously that she could never meditate in the way I have described)
I should consider it suspicious. Keep on with your meditation, then, and
endeavour to be free from this error, and make every effort to avoid this
absorption. If your efforts are not sufficient, tell the prioress, in order
that she may give you some work which will keep you so busy that this danger
will no longer exist. Any continuous exposure to it would be very bad for the
brain and the head, if nothing worse.

I think I have explained what it is well for you to know -- namely that,
however spiritual you are, you must not flee so completely from corporeal
things as to think that meditation on the most sacred Humanity can actually
harm you. We are sometimes reminded that the Lord said to His disciples that it
was expedient for them that He should go away:[197] I cannot, however, allow
that as an argument. He did not say this to His most sacred Mother, because she
was firm in the faith and knew that He was God and Man; and, although she loved
Him more than they, her love was so perfect that His being on earth was
actually a help to her. The Apostles could not at that time have been as firm
in the faith as they were later and as we have reason to be now. I assure you,
daughters, that I consider this a perilous road and that if we took it the
devil might end by causing us to lose our devotion to the Most Holy Sacrament.

The mistake, I think, which I used to make myself did not go as far as this; it
was only that I would take less pleasure than previously in thinking of Our
Lord Jesus Christ and would go about in that state of absorption, expecting to
receive spiritual consolation. Then I saw clearly that I was going wrong; for,
as it was impossible always to be having consolations, my thoughts would keep
passing from one subject to another, until my soul, I think, got like a bird
flying round and round in search of a resting-place and losing a great deal of
time, without advancing in the virtues or making progress in prayer. I could
not understand the cause -- nor, I believe, should I ever have understood it,
because I thought I was on the proper road, until one day, when I was telling a
person who was a servant of God about my method of prayer, he gave me some
counsel. This showed me clearly how far I had gone astray and I have never
ceased regretting that there was once a time when I failed to realize that so
great a loss could not possibly result in gain. Even if I could obtain it, I
want no blessing save that which I acquire through Him by Whom all blessings
come to us. May He be praised for ever. Amen.

CHAPTER VIII

    Treats of the way in which God communicates Himself to the soul through
    intellectual vision.[198] Describes the effects which this produces when
    genuine. Charges that these favours be kept secret.

IN order, sisters, that you may the better appreciate the accuracy of what I
have been saying to you and see that the farther a soul progresses the closer
becomes its companionship with this good Jesus, it will be well for us to
consider how, when His Majesty so wills, we cannot do otherwise than walk with
Him all the times as is clear from the ways and methods whereby His Majesty
communicates Himself to us, and reveals His love for us by means of such
wonderful appearances and visions. Should the Lord grant you any of the favours
which I shall describe (I mean, if He grants me ability to describe any of
them), you must not be dismayed. Even though it be not to us that He grants
them, we must give Him hearty praise that He should be pleased to commune with
a creature -- He Who is of such great majesty and power.

It may happen that, while the soul is not in the least expecting Him to be
about to grant it this favour, which it has never thought it can possibly
deserve, it is conscious that Jesus Christ Our Lord is near to it, though it
cannot see Him either with the eyes of the body or with those of the soul. This
(I do not know why) is called an intellectual vision. I saw a person to whom
God had granted this favour, together with other favours which I shall describe
later. At first that person was greatly perturbed, for she could not understand
what the vision was, not having seen anything. She realized with such certainty
that it was Jesus Christ Our Lord Who had revealed Himself to her in that way
that she could not doubt it -- I mean, could not doubt that that vision was
there. But as to its being from God or no she had great misgivings, although
the effects which it produced were so remarkable that they suggested it came
from Him. She had never heard of an intellectual vision, or realized that there
was any such thing, but she understood quite clearly that it was this Lord Who
often spoke to her in the way I have described: until He granted her this
favour to which I am referring she never knew Who was speaking to her, although
she understood the words.

Being frightened about this vision (for it is not like an imaginary vision,
which is quickly gone, but lasts for many days -- sometimes for more than a
year), she went off to her confessor in a state of great perturbation.[199] "If
you see nothing," he asked her, "how do you know it is Our Lord?" Then he told
her to tell him what His face was like. She replied that she did not know, that
she had seen no face, and that she could not tell him more than she had done
already: what she did know was that it was He Who was speaking to her and that
it was no fancy. And, although people aroused grievous misgivings in her about
it, she felt again and again that she could not doubt its genuineness,
especially when He said to her: "Be not afraid: it is I." These words had such
power that when she heard them she could not doubt, and she was greatly
strengthened and gladdened by such good companionship. For she saw plainly that
it was a great help to her to be habitually thinking of God wherever she went
and to be taking such care to do nothing which would displease Him because she
felt that He was always looking at her. Whenever she wanted to draw near to His
Majesty in prayer, and at other times as well, she felt He was so near that He
could not fail to hear her, although she was unable to hear Him speaking to her
whenever she wished, but did so at quite unexpected times, when it became
necessary. She was conscious that He was walking at her right hand, but this
consciousness arose, not from those senses which tell us that another person is
near us, but in another and a subtler way which is indescribable. It is quite
as unmistakable, however, and produces a feeling of equal certainty, or even
greater. Other things of the kind might be attributable to fancy, but this
thing is not, for it brings such great benefits and produces such effects upon
the interior life as could not occur if it were the result of melancholy. The
devil again, could not do so much good: were it his work, the soul would not
have such peace and such constant desires to please God and such scorn for
everything that does not lead it to Him. Later, this person attained a clear
realization that it was not the work of the devil and came to understand it
better and better.

None the less, I know she sometimes felt the gravest misgivings, and at other
times the greatest confusion,[200] because she had no idea whence such a great
blessing had come to her. She and I were so intimate that nothing happened in
her soul of which I was ignorant and thus I can be a good witness and you may
be sure that everything I say about it is true. This favour of the Lord brings
with it the greatest confusion and humility. If it came from the devil, it
would be just the reverse. As it is a thing which can be clearly recognized as
the gift of God and such feelings could not possibly be produced by human
effort, anyone who has it must know it does not in reality come from him, but
is a gift from the hand of God. And although, as I believe, some of the other
experiences that have been described are greater favours than this, yet this
brings a special knowledge of God, and from this constant companionship is born
a most tender love toward His Majesty, and yearnings, even deeper than those
already described, to give oneself wholly up to His service, and a great purity
of conscience; for the Presence Which the soul has at its side makes it
sensitive to everything. For though we know quite well that God is present in
all that we do, our nature is such that it makes us lose sight of the fact; but
when this favour is granted it can no longer do so, for the Lord, Who is near
at hand, awakens it. And even the favours aforementioned occur much more
commonly, as the soul experiences a vivid and almost constant love for Him Whom
it sees or knows to be at its side.

In short, the greatness and the precious quality of this favour are best seen
in what the soul gains from it. It thanks the Lord, Who bestows it on one that
has not deserved it, and would exchange it for no earthly treasure or joy. When
the Lord is pleased to withdraw it, the soul is left in great loneliness; yet
all the possible efforts that it might make to regain His companionship are of
little avail, for the Lord gives this when He wills and it cannot be acquired.
Sometimes, again, the companionship is that of a saint and this is also a great
help to us.

You will ask how, if this Presence cannot be seen, the soul knows that it is
that of Christ, or when it is a saint, or His most glorious Mother. This is a
question which the soul cannot answer, nor can it understand how it knows what
it does; it is perfectly certain, however, that it is right. When it is the
Lord, and He speaks, it is natural that He should be easily recognized; but
even when it is a saint, and no words are spoken, the soul is able to feel that
the Lord is sending him to be a help and a companion to it; and this is more
remarkable. There are also other spiritual experiences which cannot be
described, but they all help to show us how impotent our nature is, when it
comes to understanding the great wonders of God, for we are not capable of
understanding these but can only marvel and praise His Majesty for giving them
to us. So let us give Him special thanks for them; for, as this is not a favour
which is granted to all, it is one which should be highly esteemed and we must
try to render the greatest services to God Who has so many ways of helping us.
For this reason no one thus favoured has any better opinion of himself on that
account. On the contrary, he feels that he is serving God less than anyone else
on the earth, and yet that no one else has so great an obligation to serve Him.
Any fault which he commits, therefore, pierces his very vitals and has every
reason to do so.

These above-described effects which such visions cause in the soul may be
observed by any one of you whom the Lord leads by this way, and you will then
see that they are due neither to deception nor to fancy. For, as I have said,
if they are of the devil, I do not think they can possibly last so long or do
the soul such a great deal of good, or bring it such inward peace. It is not
usual for one who is so evil to do so much good; he could not, in fact, even if
he would. The soul would soon become clouded over by the mist of self-esteem
and would begin to think itself better than others. But its continual
occupation with God and its fixing of the thought on Him would make the devil
so furious that, though he might attempt such a thing once, he would not do so
often. God is so faithful that He will not allow the devil to have all this
power over a soul whose one aim is to please Him and to devote its whole life
to His honour and glory; He will see to it that the devil is speedily
disillusioned.

My point is, and will continue to be, that, if the soul walks in the manner
described above, and these favours of God are withdrawn from it, His Majesty
will see that it is the gainer, and if He sometimes allows the devil to attack
it, his efforts will be brought to confusion. Therefore, daughters, if any of
you travel along this road, as I have said, do not be alarmed. It is well for
us to have misgivings and walk the more warily; and you must not presume upon
having received these favours and become careless, for if you do not find them
producing in you the result already described it will be a sign that they are
not of God. It will be well at first for you to communicate this, in
confession, to some very learned man (for it is from such men that we must seek
illumination) or to any highly spiritual person if you know one. Should your
confessor not be a very spiritual man, someone with learning is better; or, if
you know such a person, it is best to consult one both spiritual and learned.
If he tells you that it is fancy, do not let that trouble you, for fancy can
have little effect on your soul, either for good or for evil: commend yourself
to the Divine Majesty and pray Him not to allow you to be deceived. If he tells
you that it is the devil, this will be a greater trial to you, though no
learned man would say such a thing if you have experienced the effects
described; but, if he says it, I know that the Lord Himself, Who is walking at
your side, will console you and reassure you, and will continue to give him
light, so that he in his turn may give it to you.

If your director, though a man of prayer, has not been led in this way by the
Lord, he will at once become alarmed and condemn it; that is why I advise you
to go to a man who has both spirituality and great learning if such a one can
be found. Your prioress should give you leave to do this; for although, seeing
you are leading a good life, she may think your soul is safe, she will be bound
to allow you to consult someone for your own safety and for hers as well. When
you have finished these consultations, calm yourself and do not go on talking
about the matter, for sometimes, when there is no reason for fear, the devil
implants such excessive misgivings that they prevent the soul from being
content with a single consultation, especially if the confessor has had little
experience and treats the matter timorously and enjoins you to go and consult
others. In such a case what should by rights be a close secret gets noised
abroad and the penitent is persecuted and tormented; for she finds that what
she thought was secret has become public, and this leads to many sore trials,
which, as things are at present, might affect the Order. Great caution, then,
is necessary here and such caution I strongly recommend to prioresses.

And let none of you imagine that, because a sister has had such experiences,
she is any better than the rest; the Lord leads each of us as He sees we have
need. Such experiences, if we use them aright, prepare us to be better servants
of God; but sometimes it is the weakest whom God leads by this road; and so
there is no ground here either for approval or for condemnation. We must base
our judgments on the virtues. The saintliest will be she who serves Our Lord
with the greatest mortification and humility and purity of conscience. Little,
however, can be known with any certainty about this on earth, nor until the
true Judge gives each his deserts. Then we shall be amazed to see how different
His judgment is from the ideas which we have formed on earth. May He be for
ever praised. Amen.

CHAPTER IX

    Treats of the way in which the Lord communicates Himself to the soul
    through imaginary visions and gives an emphatic warning that we should be
    careful not to desire to walk in this way. Gives reasons for the warning.
    This chapter is of great profit.

LET us now come to imaginary visions, in which the devil is said to interfere
more frequently than in those already described. This may well be the case; but
when they come from Our Lord they seem to me in some ways more profitable
because they are in closer conformity with our nature, except for those which
the Lord bestows in the final Mansion, and with which no others can compare.

Let us now imagine, as I said in the last chapter, that this Lord is here. It
is as if in a gold reliquary there were hidden a precious stone of the highest
value and the choicest virtues: although we have never seen the stone, we know
for certain that it is there and if we carry it about with us we can have the
benefit of its virtues. We do not prize it any the less for not having seen it,
because we have found by experience that it has cured us of certain illnesses
for which it is a sovereign remedy. But we dare not look at it, or open the
reliquary in which it is contained, nor are we able to do so; for only the
owner of the jewel knows how to open it, and though he has lent it to us so
that we may benefit by it, he has kept the key and so it is still his own. He
will open it when he wants to show it to us and he will take it back when he
sees fit to do so. And that is what God does, too.

And now let us suppose that on some occasion the owner of the reliquary
suddenly wants to open it, for the benefit of the person to whom he has lent
it. Obviously this person will get much greater pleasure from it if he can
recall the wonderful brilliance of the stone, and it will remain the more
deeply engraven upon his memory. This is what happens here. When Our Lord is
pleased to bestow greater consolations upon this soul, He grants it, in
whatever way He thinks best, a clear revelation of His sacred Humanity, either
as He was when He lived in the world, or as He was after His resurrection; and
although He does this so quickly that we might liken the action to a flash of
lightning, this most glorious image is so deeply engraven upon the imagination
that I do not believe it can possibly disappear until it is where it can be
enjoyed to all eternity.

I speak of an "image", but it must not be supposed that one looks at it as at a
painting; it is really alive, and sometimes even speaks to the soul and shows
it things both great and secret. But you must realize that, although the soul
sees this for a certain length of time, it can no more be gazing at it all the
time than it could keep gazing at the sun. So the vision passes very quickly,
though this is not because its brilliance hurts the interior sight -- that is,
the medium by which all such things are seen -- as the brilliance of the sun
hurts the eyes. When it is a question of exterior sight, I can say nothing
about it, for the person I have mentioned, and of whom I can best speak, had
not experienced this; and reason can testify only inadequately to things of
which it has no experience. The brilliance of this vision is like that of
infused light or of a sun covered with some material of the transparency of a
diamond, if such a thing could be woven. This raiment looks like the finest
cambric. Almost invariably the soul on which God bestows this favour remains in
rapture, because its unworthiness cannot endure so terrible a sight.

I say "terrible", because, though the sight is the loveliest and most
delightful imaginable, even by a person who lived and strove to imagine it for
a thousand years, because it so far exceeds all that our imagination and
understanding can compass, its presence is of such exceeding majesty that it
fills the soul with a great terror. It is unnecessary to ask here how, without
being told, the soul knows Who it is, for He reveals Himself quite clearly as
the Lord of Heaven and earth. This the kings of the earth never do: indeed,
they would be thought very little of for what they are, but that they are
accompanied by their suites, or heralds proclaim them.

O, Lord, how little do we Christians know Thee! What will that day be like when
Thou comest to judge us? If when Thou comest here in such a friendly way to
hold converse with Thy bride the sight of Thee causes us such fear, what will
it be, O daughters, when with that stern voice He says: "Depart, accursed of My
Father"![201]

Let us keep that in mind when we remember this favour which God grants to the
soul, and we shall find it of no small advantage to us. Even Saint Jerome, holy
man though he was, did not banish it from his memory. If we do that we shall
care nothing for all we have suffered through keeping strictly to the
observances of our Order, for, however long this may take us, the time will be
but short by comparison with eternity. I can tell you truly that, wicked as I
am, I have never feared the torments of hell, for they seem nothing by
comparison with the thought of the wrath which the damned will see in the
Lord's eyes -- those eyes so lovely and tender and benign. I do not think my
heart could bear to see that; and I have felt like this all my life. How much
more will anyone fear this to whom He has thus revealed Himself, and given such
a consciousness of His presence as will produce unconsciousness![202] It must
be for this reason that the soul remains in suspension; the Lord helps it in
its weakness so that this may be united with His greatness in this sublime
communion with God.

When the soul is able to remain for a long time looking upon the Lord, I do not
think it can be a vision at all. It must rather be that some striking idea
creates a picture in the imagination: but this will be a dead image by
comparison with the other.

Some persons -- and I know this is the truth, for they have discussed it with
me; and not just three or four of them, but a great many -- find that their
imagination is so weak, or their understanding is so nimble, or for some other
reason their imagination becomes so absorbed, that they think they can actually
see everything that is in their mind. If they had ever seen a true vision they
would realize their error beyond the possibility of doubt. Little by little
they build up the picture which they see with their imagination, but this
produces no effect upon them and they remain cold -- much more so than they are
after seeing a sacred image. No attention, of course, should be paid to such a
thing, which will be forgotten much more quickly than a dream.

The experience we are discussing here is quite different. The soul is very far
from expecting to see anything and the thought of such a thing has never even
passed through its mind. All of a sudden the whole vision is revealed to it and
all its faculties and senses are thrown into the direst fear and confusion, and
then sink into that blessed state of peace. It is just as when Saint Paul was
thrown to the ground and there came that storm and tumult in the sky, just so,
in this interior world, there is a great commotion; and then all at once, as I
have said, everything grows calm, and the soul, completely instructed in such
great truths, has no need of another master. True wisdom, without any effort on
its own part, has overcome its stupidity and for a certain space of time it
enjoys the complete certainty that this favour comes from God. However often it
may be told that this is not so it cannot be induced to fear that it may have
been mistaken. Later, when the confessor insinuates this fear, God allows the
soul to begin to hesitate as to whether He could possibly grant this favour to
such a sinner. But that is all; for, as I have said in these other cases, in
speaking of temptations in matters of faith, the devil can disturb the soul,
but he cannot shake the firmness of its belief. On the contrary, the more
fiercely he attacks it, the more certain it becomes that he could never endow
it with so many blessings -- which is actually true, for over the interior of
the soul he wields less power. He may be able to reveal something to it, but
not with the same truth and majesty, nor can he produce the same results.

As confessors cannot see all this for themselves, and a soul to whom God has
granted such a favour may be unable to describe it, they have misgivings about
it, and quite justifiably. So they have to proceed cautiously, and even to wait
for some time to see what results these apparitions produce, and to observe
gradually how much humility they leave in the soul and to what extent it is
strengthened in virtue; if they come from the devil there will soon be signs of
the fact, for he will be caught out in a thousand lies. If the confessor is
experienced, and has himself been granted such visions, it will not be long
before he is able to form a judgment, for the account which the soul gives will
at once show him whether they proceed from God or from the imagination or from
the devil, especially if His Majesty has granted him the gift of discerning
spirits. If he has this and is a learned man, he will be able to form an
opinion perfectly well, even though he may be without experience.

The really essential thing, sisters, is that you should speak to your confessor
very plainly and candidly -- I do not mean here in confessing your sins, for of
course you will do so then, but in describing your experiences in prayer. For
unless you do this, I cannot assure you that you are proceeding as you should
or that it is God Who is teaching you. God is very anxious for us to speak
candidly and clearly to those who are in His place, and to desire them to be
acquainted with all our thoughts, and still more with our actions, however
trivial these may be. If you do this, you need not be disturbed, or worried,
for, even if these things be not of God, they will do you no harm if you are
humble and have a good conscience. His Majesty is able to bring good out of
evil and you will gain by following the road by which the devil hoped to bring
you to destruction. For, as you will suppose that it is God Who is granting you
these great favours, you will strive to please Him better and keep His image
ever in your mind. A very learned man used to say that the devil is a skilful
painter, and that, if he were to show him an absolutely lifelike image of the
Lord, it would not worry him, because it would quicken his devotion, and so he
would be using the devil's own wicked weapons to make war on him. However evil
the painter be, one cannot fail to reverence the picture that he paints, if it
is of Him Who is our only Good.

This learned man thought that the counsel, given by some people, to treat any
vision of this kind with scorn,[203] was very wrong: we must reverence a
painting of our King, he said, wherever we see it. I think he is right; even on
a worldly plane we should feel that. If a person who had a great friend knew
that insulting things were being said about his portrait he would not be
pleased. How much more incumbent upon us is it, then, always to be respectful
when we see a crucifix or any kind of portrait of our Emperor!

Although I have written this elsewhere, I have been glad to set it down here,
for I knew someone who was in great distress because she had been ordered to
adopt this derisive remedy. I do not know who can have invented such advice,
for, if it came from her confessor, it would have been a torture to her: she
would be bound to obey him, and would have thought herself a lost soul unless
she had done so. My own advice is that, if you are given such counsel, you
should not accept it and should with all humility put forward this argument
that I have given you. I was extremely struck by the good reasons against the
practice alleged by the person who advised me in this case.

The soul derives great profit from this favour bestowed by the Lord, for
thinking upon Him or upon His life and Passion recalls His most meek and lovely
face, which is the greatest comfort, just as in the earthly sphere we get much
more comfort from seeing a person who is a great help to us than if we had
never known him. I assure you that such a delectable remembrance gives the
greatest help and comfort. It also brings many other blessings with it, but as
so much has been said about the effects caused by these things, and there is
more still to come, I will not fatigue myself or you by adding more just now. I
will only warn you that, when you learn or hear that God is granting souls
these graces, you must never beseech or desire Him to lead you along this road.
Even if you think it a very good one, and to be greatly prized and reverenced,
there are certain reasons why such a course is not wise.

The first reason is that it shows a lack of humility to ask to be given what
you have never deserved, so I think anyone who asks for this cannot be very
humble. A peasant of lowly birth would never dream of wishing to be a king;
such a thing seems to him impossible because he does not merit it. Anyone who
is humble feels just the same about these other things. I think they will never
be bestowed on a person devoid of humility, because before the Lord grants a
soul these favours He always gives it a high degree of self-knowledge. And how
could one who has such ambitions realize that He is doing him a great favour in
not casting him into hell?

The second reason is that such a person is quite certain to be deceived, or to
be in great peril, because the devil has only to see a door left slightly ajar
to enter and play a thousand tricks on us.

The third reason is to be found in the imagination. When a person has a great
desire for something, he persuades himself that he is seeing or hearing what he
desires, just as those who go about desiring something all day think so much
about it that after a time they begin to dream of it.

The fourth reason is that it is very presumptuous in me to wish to choose my
path, because I cannot tell which path is best for me. I must leave it to the
Lord, Who knows me, to lead me by the path which is best for me, so that in all
things His will may be done.

In the fifth place, do you suppose that the trials suffered by those to whom
the Lord grants these favours are light ones? No, they are very heavy, and of
many kinds. How do you know if you would be able to bear them?

In the sixth place, you may well find that the very thing from which you had
expected gain will bring you loss, just as Saul only lost by becoming a king.

And besides these reasons, sisters, there are others. Believe me, the safest
thing is to will only what God wills, for He knows us better than we know
ourselves, and He loves us. Let us place ourselves in His hands so that His
will may be done in us; if we cling firmly to this maxim and our wills are
resolute we cannot possibly go astray. And you must note that you will merit no
more glory for having received many of these favours; on the contrary, the fact
that you are receiving more imposes on you greater obligations to serve. The
Lord does not deprive us of anything which adds to our merit, for this remains
in our own power. There are many saintly people who have never known what it is
to receive a favour of this kind, and there are others who receive a favour of
this kind, and there are others who received such favours, although they are
not saintly. Do not suppose, again, that they occur continually. Each occasion
on which the Lord grants them brings with it a great many trials; and thus the
soul does not think about receiving more, but only about how to put those it
receives to a good use.

It is true that to have these favours must be the greatest help towards
attaining a high degree of perfection in the virtues; but anyone who has
attained the virtues at the cost of his own toil has earned much more merit. I
know of a person to whom the Lord had granted some of these favours -- of two
indeed; one was a man. Both were desirous of serving His Majesty, at their own
cost, and without being given any of these great consolations; and they were so
anxious to suffer that they complained to Our Lord because He bestowed favours
on them, which, had it been possible, they would have excused themselves from
receiving. I am speaking here, not of these visions, which bring us great gain,
and are very much to be prized, but of consolations which the Lord gives in
contemplation.

It is true that, in my opinion, these desires are supernatural, and come from
souls fired with love, who would like the Lord to see that they are not serving
Him for pay; for which reason, as I have said, they never spur themselves to
greater efforts in God's service by thinking of the glory which they will
receive for anything they do; rather do they serve Him for the satisfaction of
their love, for the nature of love invariably finds expression in work of a
thousand kinds. If it were able, the soul would invent methods by which to be
come consumed in Him, and if, for the greater honour of God, it were necessary
that it should remain annihilated for ever, it would agree to this very
willingly. May He be for ever praised Who is pleased to show forth His
greatness by stooping to commune with such miserable creatures. Amen.

CHAPTER X

    Speaks of other favours which God grants to the soul in a different way
    from those already mentioned, and of the great profit that they bring.

THERE are many ways in which the Lord communicates Himself to the soul by means
of these apparitions. Some of them come when the soul is afflicted; others,
when it is about to be visited by some heavy trial; others, so that His Majesty
may take His delight in it and at the same time may comfort it. There is no
need to particularize about each of these; my intention is only to explain in
turn the different experiences which occur on this road, as far as I understand
them, so that you, sisters, may understand their nature and the effects which
they cause. And I am doing this so that you may not suppose everything you
imagine to be a vision, and so that, when you do see a vision, you will know
that such a thing is possible and will not be disturbed or distressed. For,
when you are, it is a great gain for the devil; he is delighted to see a soul
distressed and uneasy, because he knows that this will hinder it from employing
itself in loving and praising God. His Majesty also communicates Himself in
other ways, which are much more sublime, and are also less dangerous, because,
I think, the devil cannot counterfeit them. But, being very secret things, they
are difficult to describe, whereas imaginary visions can be explained more
readily.

When the Lord so wills, it may happen that the soul will be at prayer, and in
possession of all its senses, and that then there will suddenly come to it a
suspension in which the Lord communicates most secret things to it, which it
seems to see within God Himself. These are not visions of the most sacred
Humanity; although I say that the soul "sees" Him, it really sees nothing, for
this is not an imaginary, but a notably intellectual, vision, in which is
revealed to the soul how all things are seen in God, and how within Himself He
contains them all. Such a vision is highly profitable because, although it
passes in a moment, it remains engraven upon the soul. It causes us the
greatest confusion, by showing us clearly how wrongly we are acting when we
offend God, since it is within God Himself -- because we dwell within Him, I
mean -- that we are committing these great sins. I want, if I can, to draw a
comparison to explain this, for, although it is a fact and we hear it stated
frequently, we either pay no heed to it or refuse to understand it; if we
really understood it, I do not think we could possibly be so presumptuous.

Let us imagine that God is like a very large and beautiful mansion or palace.
This palace, then, as I say, is God Himself. Now can the sinner go away from it
in order to commit his misdeeds? Certainly not, these abominations and
dishonourable actions and evil deeds which we sinners commit are done within
the palace itself -- that is, within God. Oh, fearful thought, worthy of deep
consideration and very profitable for us who are ignorant and unable to
understand these truths -- for if we could understand them we could not
possibly be guilty of such foolish presumption! Let us consider, sisters, the
great mercy and long-suffering of God in not casting us straight into the
depths, and let us render Him the heartiest thanks and be ashamed of worrying
over anything that is done or said against us. It is the most dreadful thing in
the world that God our Creator should suffer so many misdeeds to be committed
by His creatures within Himself, while we ourselves are sometimes worried about
a single word uttered in our absence and perhaps not even with a wrong
intention.

Oh, human misery! How long will it be, daughters, before we imitate this great
God in any way? Oh, let us not deceive ourselves into thinking that we are
doing anything whatever by merely putting up with insults! Let us endure
everything, and be very glad to do so, and love those who do us wrong; for,
greatly as we have offended this great God, He has not ceased loving us, and so
He has very good reason for desiring us all to forgive those who have wronged
us. I assure you, daughters, that, although this vision passes quickly, it is a
great favour for the Lord to bestow it upon those to whom He grants it if they
will try to profit by having it habitually present in their minds.

It may also happen that, very suddenly and in a way which cannot be described,
God will reveal a truth that is in Himself and that makes any truth to be found
in the creatures seem like thick darkness; He will also manifest very clearly
that He alone is truth and cannot lie. This is a very good explanation of
David's meaning in that Psalm where he says that every man is a liar.[204] One
would never take those words in that sense of one's own accord, however many
times one heard them, but they express a truth which is infallible. I remember
that story about Pilate, who asked Our Lord so many questions, and at the time
of His Passion said to Him: '"What is truth?"[205] And then I reflect how
little we understand of this Sovereign Truth here on earth.

I should like to be able to say more about this matter, but it is impossible.
Let us learn from this, sisters, that if we are in any way to grow like our God
and Spouse, we shall do well always to study earnestly to walk in this truth. I
do not mean simply that we must not tell falsehoods, for as far as that is
concerned -- glory be to God! -- I know that in these convents of ours you take
very great care never to lie about anything for any reason whatsoever. I mean
that we must walk in truth, in the presence of God and man, in every way
possible to us. In particular we must not desire to be reputed better than we
are and in all we do we must attribute to God what is His, and to ourselves
what is ours, and try to seek after truth in everything. If we do that, we
shall make small account of this world, for it is all lying and falsehood and
for that reason cannot endure.

I was wondering once why Our Lord so dearly loved this virtue of humility; and
all of a sudden -- without, I believe, my having previously thought of it --
the following reason came into my mind: that it is because God is Sovereign
Truth and to be humble is to walk in truth, for it is absolutely true to say
that we have no good thing in ourselves, but only misery and nothingness; and
anyone who fails to understand this is walking in falsehood. He who best
understands it is most pleasing to Sovereign Truth because he is walking in
truth. May it please God, sisters, to grant us grace never to fail to have this
knowledge of ourselves. Amen.

Our Lord grants the soul favours like these because He is pleased to treat her
like a true bride, who is determined to do His will in all things, and to give
her some knowledge of the way in which she can do His will and of His
greatness. I need say no more; I have said these two things because they seem
to me so helpful; for there is no reason to be afraid of these favours, but
only to praise the Lord, because He gives them. In my opinion, there is little
scope here either for the devil or for the soul's own imagination, and when it
knows this the soul experiences a great and lasting happiness.

CHAPTER XI

    Treats of the desires to enjoy God which He gives the soul and which are so
    great and impetuous that they endanger its life. Treats also of the profit
    which comes from this favour granted by the Lord.

HAVE all these favours which the Spouse has granted the soul been sufficient to
satisfy this little dove or butterfly (do not suppose that I have forgotten
her) and to make her settle down in the place where she is to die? Certainly
not; she is in a much worse state than before; for, although she may have been
receiving these favours for many years, she is still sighing and weeping, and
each of them causes her fresh pain. The reason for this is that, the more she
learns about the greatness of her God, while finding herself so far from Him
and unable to enjoy Him, the more her desire increases. For the more is
revealed to her of how much this great God and Lord deserves to be loved, the
more does her love for Him grow. And gradually, during these years, her desire
increases, so that she comes to experience great distress, as I will now
explain. I have spoken of years, because I am writing about the experiences of
the particular person about whom I have been speaking here. But it must be
clearly understood that no limitations can be set to God's acts, and that He
can raise a soul to the highest point here mentioned in a single moment. His
Majesty has the power to do all that He wishes and He is desirous of doing a
great deal for us.

The soul, then, has these yearnings and tears and sighs, together with the
strong impulses which have already been described. They all seem to arise from
our love, and are accompanied by great emotion, but they are all as nothing by
comparison with this other, for they are like a smouldering fire, the heat of
which is quite bearable, though it causes pain. While the soul is in this
condition, and interiorly burning, it often happens that a mere fleeting
thought of some kind (there is no way of telling whence it comes, or how) or
some remark which the soul hears about death's long tarrying, deals it, as it
were, a blow, or, as one might say, wounds it with an arrow of fire. I do not
mean that there actually is such an arrow, but, whatever it is, it obviously
could not have come from our own nature. Nor is it actually a blow, though I
have spoken of it as such; but it makes a deep wound, not, I think, in any
region where physical pain can be felt, but in the soul's most intimate depths.
It passes as quickly as a flash of lightning and leaves everything in our
nature that is earthly reduced to powder. During the time that it lasts we
cannot think of anything that has to do with our own existence: it
instantaneously enchains the faculties in such a way that they have no freedom
to do anything, except what will increase this pain.

I should not like this to sound exaggerated: in reality I am beginning to see,
as I go on, that all I say falls short of the truth, which is indescribable. It
is an enrapturing of the senses and faculties, except, as I have said, in ways
which enhance this feeling of distress. The understanding is keenly on the
alert to discover why this soul feels absent from God, and His Majesty now aids
it with so lively a knowledge of Himself that it causes the distress to grow
until the sufferer cries out aloud. However patient a sufferer she may be, and
however accustomed to enduring great pain, she cannot help doing this, because
this pain, as I have said, is not in the body, but deep within the soul. It was
in this way that the person I have mentioned discovered how much more sensitive
the soul is than the body, and it was revealed to her that this suffering
resembles that of souls in purgatory; despite their being no longer in the body
they suffer much more than do those who are still in the body and on earth.

I once saw a person in this state who I really believed was dying; and this was
not at all surprising, because it does in fact involve great peril of death.
Although it lasts only for a short time, it leaves the limbs quite disjointed,
and, for as long as it continues, the pulse is as feeble as though the soul
were about to render itself up to God. It really is quite as bad as this. For,
while the natural heat of the body fails, the soul burns so fiercely within
that, if the flame were only a little stronger, God would have fulfilled its
desires. It is not that it feels any bodily pain whatsoever, notwithstanding
such a dislocation of the limbs that for two or three days afterwards it is in
great pain and has not the strength even to write; in fact the body seems to me
never to be as strong as it was previously. The reason it feels no pain must be
that it is suffering so keenly within that it takes no notice of the body. It
is as when we have a very acute pain in one spot; we may have many other pains
but we feel them less; this I have conclusively proved. In the present case,
the soul feels nothing at all, and I do not believe it would feel anything if
it were cut into little pieces.

You will tell me that this is imperfection and ask why such a person does not
resign herself to the will of God, since she has surrendered herself to Him so
completely. Down to this time she had been able to do so, and indeed had spent
her life doing so; but now she no longer can because her reason is in such a
state that she is not her own mistress, and can think of nothing but the cause
of her suffering. Since she is absent from her Good, why should she wish to
live? She is conscious of a strange solitude, since there is not a creature on
the whole earth who can be a companion to her -- in fact, I do not believe she
would find any in Heaven, save Him Whom she loves: on the contrary, all earthly
companionship is torment to her. She thinks of herself as of a person suspended
aloft, unable either to come down and rest anywhere on earth or to ascend into
Heaven. She is parched with thirst, yet cannot reach the water; and the thirst
is not a tolerable one but of a kind that nothing can quench, nor does she
desire it to be quenched, except with that water of which Our Lord spoke to the
Samaritan woman,[206] and that is not given to her.

Ah, God help me! Lord, how Thou dost afflict Thy lovers! Yet all this is very
little by comparison with what Thou bestowest upon them later. It is well that
great things should cost a great deal, especially if the soul can be purified
by suffering and enabled to enter the seventh Mansion, just as those who are to
enter Heaven are cleansed in purgatory. If this is possible, its suffering is
no more than a drop of water in the sea. So true is this that, despite all its
torment and distress, which cannot, I believe, be surpassed by any such things
on earth (many of which this person had endured, both bodily and spiritual, and
they all seemed to her nothing by comparison), the soul feels this affliction
to be so precious that it fully realizes it could never deserve it. But the
anguish is of such a kind that nothing can relieve it; none the less the soul
suffers it very gladly, and, if God so willed, would suffer it all its life
long, although this would be not to die once, but to be always dying, for it is
really quite as bad as that.

And now, sisters, let us consider the condition of those who are in hell. They
are not resigned, as this soul is, nor have they this contentment and delight
which God gives it. They cannot see that their suffering is doing them any
good, yet they keep suffering more and more -- I mean more and more in respect
of accidental pains[207] -- for the torment suffered by the soul is much more
acute than that suffered by the body and the pains which such souls have to
endure are beyond comparison greater than what we have here been describing.
These unhappy souls know that they will have to suffer in this way for ever and
ever: what, then, will become of them? And what is there that we can do -- or
even suffer -- in so short a life as this which will matter in the slightest if
it will free us from these terrible and eternal torments? I assure you it is
impossible to explain to anyone who has not experienced it what a grievous
thing is the soul's suffering and how different it is from the suffering of the
body. The Lord will have us understand this so that we may be more conscious of
how much we owe Him for bringing us to a state in which by His mercy we may
hope that He will set us free and forgive us our sins.

Let us now return to what we were discussing when we left this soul in such
affliction. It remains in this state only for a short time (three or four hours
at most, I should say); for, if the pain lasted long, it would be impossible,
save by a miracle, for natural weakness to suffer it. On one occasion it lasted
only for a quarter of an hour and yet produced complete prostration. On that
occasion, as a matter of fact, the sufferer entirely lost consciousness. The
violent attack came on through her hearing some words about 'life not ending".
[208] She was engaged in conversation at the time -- it was the last day of
Eastertide, and all that Easter she had been affected with such aridity that
she hardly knew it was Easter at all. So just imagine anyone thinking that
these attacks can be resisted! It is no more possible to resist them than for a
person thrown into a fire to make the flames lose their heat and not burn her.
She cannot hide her anguish, so all who are present realize the great peril in
which she lies, even though they cannot witness what is going on within her. It
is true that they can bear her company, but they only seem to her like shadows
-- as all other earthly things do too.

And now I want you to see that, if at any time you should find yourselves in
this condition, it is possible for your human nature, weak as it is, to be of
help to you. So let me tell you this. It sometimes happens that, when a person
is in this state that you have been considering, and has such yearnings to die,
[209] because the pain is more than she can bear, that her soul seems to be on
the very point of leaving the body, she is really afraid and would like her
distress to be alleviated lest she should in fact die. It is quite evident that
this fear comes from natural weakness, and yet, on the other hand, the desire
does not leave her, nor can she possibly find any means of dispelling the
distress until the Lord Himself dispels it for her. This He does, as a general
rule, by granting her a deep rapture or some kind of vision, in which the true
Comforter comforts and strengthens her so that she can wish to live for as long
as He wills.

This is a distressing thing, but it produces the most wonderful effects and the
soul at once loses its fear of any trials which may befall it; for by
comparison with the feelings of deep anguish which its spirit has experienced
these seem nothing. Having gained so much, the soul would be glad to suffer
them all again and again; but it has no means of doing so nor is there any
method by which it can reach that state again until the Lord wills, just as
there is no way of resisting or escaping it when it comes. The soul has far
more contempt for the world than it had previously, for it sees that no worldly
thing was of any avail to it in its torment; and it is very much more detached
from the creatures, because it sees that it can be comforted and satisfied only
by the Creator, and it has the greatest fear and anxiety not to offend Him,
because it sees that He can torment as well as comfort.

There are two deadly perils, it seems to me, on this spiritual road. This is
one of them -- and it is indeed a peril and no light one. The other is the
peril of excessive rejoicing and delight, which can be carried to such an
extreme that it really seems as if the soul is swooning, and as if the very
slightest thing would be enough to drive it out of the body: this would really
bring it no little happiness.

Now, sisters, you will see if I was not right in saying that courage is
necessary for us here and that if you ask the Lord for these things He will be
justified in answering you as He answered the sons of Zebedee: "Can you drink
the chalice?"[210] I believe, sisters, that we should all reply: "We can"; and
we should be quite right to do so, for His Majesty gives the strength to those
who, He sees, have need of it, and He defends these souls in every way and
stands up for them if they are persecuted and spoken ill of, as He did for the
Magdalen[211] -- by His actions if not in words. And in the end -- ah, in the
end, before they die, He repays them for everything at once, as you are now
going to see. May He be for ever blessed and may all creatures praise Him.
Amen.

SEVENTH MANSIONS
In which there are Four Chapters.

CHAPTER I

    Treats of great favours which God bestows on the souls that have attained
    entrance to the Seventh Mansions. Describes how in the author's opinion
    there is some difference between the soul and the spirit although both are
    one. There are notable things in this chapter.

YOU will think, sisters, that so much has been said about this spiritual road
that there cannot possibly be any more to say. It would be a great mistake to
think that; just as the greatness of God is without limit, even so are His
works. Who will ever come to an end of recounting His mercies and wonders? It
is impossible that any should do so; do not be surprised, therefore, at what
has been said and at what will be said now, for it is only a fraction of the
things that still remain to be related about God. Great is the mercy that He
shows us in communicating these things in such a way that we may come to learn
of them; for the more we know of His communion with creatures, the more we
shall praise His greatness, and we shall strive not to despise a soul in which
the Lord takes such delight. Each of us possesses a soul, but we do not prize
our souls as creatures made in God's image deserve and so we do not understand
the great secrets which they contain. If it be His Majesty's will, may it
please Him to guide my pen, and give me to understand how I may tell you some
of the many things which there are to be said and which God reveals to every
soul that He brings into this Mansion. Earnestly have I besought His Majesty,
since He knows my intention is that His mercies be not hidden, to the greater
praise and glory of His name.

I am hopeful, sisters, that, not for my sake but for your sakes, He will grant
me this favour, so that you may understand how important it is that no fault of
yours should hinder the celebration of His Spiritual Marriage with your souls,
which, as you will see, brings with it so many blessings. O great God! Surely a
creature as miserable as I must tremble to treat of anything so far beyond what
I deserve to understand. And indeed I have been in a state of great confusion
and have wondered if it will not be better for me in a few words to bring my
account of this Mansion to an end. I am so much afraid it will be thought that
my knowledge of it comes from experience, and this makes me very much ashamed;
for, knowing myself as I do for what I am, such a thought is terrible. On the
other hand, whatever your judgment about it may be, it has seemed to me that
this shame is due to temptation and weakness. Let the whole world cry out upon
me, so long as God is praised and understood a little better. At all events I
may perhaps be dead when this comes to be seen. Blessed be He Who lives and
shall live for ever. Amen.

When Our Lord is pleased to have pity upon this soul, which suffers and has
suffered so much out of desire for Him, and which He has now taken spiritually
to be His bride, He brings her into this Mansion of His, which is the seventh,
before consummating the Spiritual Marriage. For He must needs have an
abiding-place in the soul, just as He has one in Heaven, where His Majesty
alone dwells: so let us call this a second Heaven. It is very important,
sisters, that we should not think of the soul as of something dark. It must
seem dark to most of us, as we cannot see it, for we forget that there is not
only a light which we can see, but also an interior light, and so we think that
within our soul there is some kind of darkness. Of the soul that is not in
grace, I grant you, that is true -- not, however, from any defect in the Sun of
Justice, Who is within it and is giving it being, but because, as I think I
said in describing the first Mansion, this soul is not capable[212] of
receiving the light. A certain person came to see that these unhappy souls are,
as it were, in a dark prison, with their feet and hands bound so that they can
do no good thing which will help them to win merit;[213] they are both blind
and dumb. We do well to take pity on them, realizing that there was a time when
we were ourselves like them and that the Lord may have mercy on them also.

Let us take especial care, sisters, to pray to Him for them, and not be
negligent. To pray for those who are in mortal sin is the best kind of
almsgiving -- a much better thing than it would be to loose a Christian whom we
saw with his hands tied behind him, bound with a stout chain, made fast to a
post and dying of hunger, not for lack of food, since he has beside him the
most delicious things to eat, but because he cannot take them and put them into
his mouth although he is weary to death and actually knows that he is on the
point of dying, and not merely a death of the body, but one which is eternal.
Would it not be extremely cruel to stand looking at such a man and not give him
this food to eat? And supposing you could loose his chains by means of your
prayers? You see now what I mean. For the love of God, I beg you always to
remember such souls when you pray.[214]

However, it is not of these that we are now speaking, but of those who, by
God's mercy, have done penance for their sins and are in grace. We must not
think of souls like theirs as mean and insignificant; for each is an interior
world, wherein are the many and beauteous Mansions that you have seen; it is
reasonable that this should be so, since within each soul there is a mansion
for God. Now, when His Majesty is pleased to grant the soul the aforementioned
favour of this Divine Marriage, He first of all brings it into His own Mansion.
And His Majesty is pleased that it should not be as on other occasions, when He
has granted it raptures, in which I certainly think it is united with Him, as
it is in the above-mentioned Prayer of Union, although the soul does not feel
called to enter into its own centre, as here in this Mansion, but is affected
only in its higher part. Actually it matters little what happens: whatever it
does, the Lord unites it with Himself, but He makes it blind and dumb, as He
made Saint Paul at his conversion,[215] and so prevents it from having any
sense of how or in what way that favour comes which it is enjoying; the great
delight of which the soul is then conscious is the realization of its nearness
to God. But when He unites it with Him, it understands nothing; the faculties
are all lost.

But in this Mansion everything is different. Our good God now desires to remove
the scales from the eyes of the soul,[216] so that it may see and understand
something of the favour which He is granting it, although He is doing this in a
strange manner. It is brought into this Mansion by means of an intellectual
vision,[217] in which, by a representation of the truth in a particular way,
the Most Holy Trinity reveals Itself, in all three Persons.[218] First of all
the spirit becomes enkindled and is illumined, as it were, by a cloud of the
greatest brightness. It sees these three Persons, individually, and yet, by a
wonderful kind of knowledge which is given to it, the soul realizes that most
certainly and truly all these three Persons are one Substance and one Power and
one Knowledge and one God alone; so that what we hold by faith the soul may be
said here to grasp[219] by sight, although nothing is seen by the eyes, either
of the body or of the soul,[220] for it is no imaginary vision. Here all three
Persons communicate Themselves to the soul and speak to the soul and explain to
it those words which the Gospel attributes to the Lord -- namely, that He and
the Father and the Holy Spirit will come to dwell with the soul which loves Him
and keeps His commandments.[221]

Oh, God help me! What a difference there is between hearing and believing these
words[222] and being led in this way to realize how true they are! Each day
this soul wonders more, for she feels that they have never left her, and
perceives quite clearly, in the way I have described, that They are in the
interior of her heart -- in the most interior place of all and in its greatest
depths. So although, not being a learned person, she cannot say how this is,
she feels within herself this Divine companionship.

This may lead you to think that such a person will not remain in possession of
her senses but will be so completely absorbed that she will be able to fix her
mind upon nothing. But no: in all that belongs to the service of God she is
more alert than before; and, when not otherwise occupied, she rests in that
happy companionship. Unless her soul fails God, He will never fail, I believe,
to give her the most certain assurance of His Presence. She has great
confidence that God will not leave her, and that, having granted her this
favour, He will not allow her to lose it. For this belief the soul has good
reason, though all the time she is walking more carefully than ever, so that
she may displease Him in nothing.

This Presence is not of course always realized so fully -- I mean so clearly --
as it is when it first comes, or on certain other occasions when God grants the
soul this consolation; if it were, it would be impossible for the soul to think
of anything else, or even to live among men. But although the light which
accompanies it may not be so clear, the soul is always aware that it is
experiencing this companionship. We might compare the soul to a person who is
with others in a very bright room; and then suppose that the shutters are
closed so that the people are all in darkness. The light by which they can be
seen has been taken away, and, until it comes back, we shall be unable to see
them, yet we are none the less aware that they are there. It may be asked if,
when the light returns, and this person looks for them again, she will be able
to see them. To do this is not in her power; it depends on when Our Lord is
pleased that the shutters of the understanding shall be opened. Great is the
mercy which He grants the soul in never going away from her and in willing that
she shall understand this so clearly.

It seems that the Divine Majesty, by means of this wonderful companionship, is
desirous of preparing the soul for yet more. For clearly she will be greatly
assisted to go onward in perfection and to lose the fear which previously she
sometimes had of the other favours that were granted to her, as has been said
above. The person already referred to found herself better in every way,
however numerous were her trials and business worries, the essential part of
her soul seemed never to move from that dwelling-place. So in a sense she felt
that her soul was divided; and when she was going through great trials, shortly
after God had granted her this favour, she complained of her soul, just as
Martha complained of Mary.[223] Sometimes she would say that it was doing
nothing but enjoy itself in that quietness, while she herself was left with all
her trials and occupations so that she could not keep it company.

You will think this absurd, daughters, but it is what actually happens.
Although of course the soul is not really divided, what I have said is not
fancy, but a very common experience. As I was saying, it is possible to make
observations concerning interior matters and in this way we know that there is
some kind of difference, and a very definite one, between the soul and the
spirit, although they are both one. So subtle is the division perceptible
between them that sometimes the operation of the one seems as different from
that of the other as are the respective joys that the Lord is pleased to give
them. It seems to me, too, that the soul is a different thing from the
faculties and that they are not all one and the same. There are so many and
such subtle things in the interior life that it would be presumptuous for me to
begin to expound them. But we shall see everything in the life to come if the
Lord, of His mercy, grants us the favour of bringing us to the place where we
shall understand these secrets.

CHAPTER II

    Continues the same subject. Describes the difference between spiritual
    union and spiritual marriage. Explains this by subtle comparisons.

LET us now come to treat of the Divine and Spiritual Marriage, although this
great Favour cannot be fulfilled perfectly in us during our lifetime, for if we
were to withdraw ourselves from God this great blessing would be lost. When
granting this favour for the first time, His Majesty is pleased to reveal
Himself to the soul through an imaginary vision of His most sacred Humanity, so
that it may clearly understand what is taking place and not be ignorant of the
fact that it is receiving so sovereign a gift. To other people the experience
will come in a different way. To the person of whom we have been speaking the
Lord revealed Himself one day, when she had just received Communion, in great
splendour and beauty and majesty, as He did after His resurrection, and told
her that it was time she took upon her His affairs as if they were her own and
that He would take her affairs upon Himself; and He added other words which are
easier to understand than to repeat.[224]

This, you will think, was nothing new, since on other occasions the Lord had
revealed Himself to that soul in this way. But it was so different that it left
her quite confused and dismayed: for one reason, because this vision came with
great force; for another, because of the words which He spoke to her, and also
because, in the interior of her soul, where He revealed Himself to her, she had
never seen any visions but this. For you must understand that there is the
greatest difference between all the other visions we have mentioned and those
belonging to this Mansion, and there is the same difference between the
Spiritual Betrothal and the Spiritual Marriage as there is between two
betrothed persons and two who are united so that they cannot be separated any
more.

As I have already said, one makes these comparisons because there are no other
appropriate ones, yet it must be realized that the Betrothal has no more to do
with the body than if the soul were not in the body, and were nothing but
spirit. Between the Spiritual Marriage and the body there is even less
connection, for this secret union takes place in the deepest centre of the
soul, which must be where God Himself dwells, and I do not think there is any
need of a door by which to enter it. I say there is no need of a door because
all that has so far been described seems to have come through the medium of the
senses and faculties and this appearance of the Humanity of the Lord must do so
too. But what passes in the union of the Spiritual Marriage is very different.
The Lord appears in the centre of the soul, not through an imaginary, but
through an intellectual vision (although this is a subtler one than that
already mentioned),[225] just as He appeared to the Apostles, without entering
through the door, when He said to them: "Pax vobis".[226] This instantaneous
communication of God to the soul is so great a secret and so sublime a favour,
and such delight is felt by the soul, that I do not know with what to compare
it, beyond saying that the Lord is pleased to manifest to the soul at that
moment the glory that is in Heaven, in a sublimer manner than is possible
through any vision or spiritual consolation. It is impossible to say more than
that, as far as one can understand, the soul (I mean the spirit of this soul)
is made one with God, Who, being likewise a Spirit, has been pleased to reveal
the love that He has for us by showing to certain persons the extent of that
love, so that we may praise His greatness. For He has been pleased to unite
Himself with His creature in such a way that they have become like two who
cannot be separated from one another: even so He will not separate Himself from
her.

The Spiritual Betrothal is different: here the two persons are frequently
separated, as is the case with union, for, although by union is meant the
joining of two things into one, each of the two, as is a matter of common
observation, can be separated and remain a thing by itself. This favour of the
Lord passes quickly and afterwards the soul is deprived of that companionship
-- I mean so far as it can understand. In this other favour of the Lord it is
not so: the soul remains all the time in that centre with its God. We might say
that union is as if the ends of two wax candles were joined so that the light
they give is one: the wicks and the wax and the light are all one, yet
afterwards the one candle can be perfectly well separated from the other and
the candles become two again, or the wick may be withdrawn from the wax. But
here it is like rain falling from the heavens into a river or a spring; there
is nothing but water there and it is impossible to divide or separate the water
belonging to the river from that which fell from the heavens. Or it is as if a
tiny streamlet enters the sea, from which it will find no way of separating
itself, or as if in a room there were two large windows through which the light
streamed in: it enters in different places but it all becomes one.

Perhaps when St. Paul says: "He who is joined to God becomes one spirit with
Him,"[227] he is referring to this sovereign Marriage, which presupposes the
entrance of His Majesty into the soul by union. And he also says: Mihi vivere
Christus est, mori lucrum.^228 This, I think, the soul may say here, for it is
here that the little butterfly to which we have referred dies, and with the
greatest joy, because Christ is now its life.

This, with the passage of time, becomes more evident through its effects; for
the soul clearly understands, by certain secret aspirations, that it is endowed
with life by God. Very often these aspirations are so vehement that what they
teach cannot[229] possibly be doubted: though they cannot be described, the
soul experiences them very forcibly. One can only say that this feeling is
produced at times by certain delectable words which, it seems, the soul cannot
help uttering, such as: "O life of my life, and sustenance that sustaineth me!"
and things of that kind. For from those Divine breasts, where it seems that God
is ever sustaining the soul, flow streams of milk, which solace all who dwell
in the Castle; it seems that it is the Lord's will for them to enjoy all that
the soul enjoys, so that, from time to time, there should flow from this mighty
river, in which this tiny little spring is swallowed up, a stream of this
water, to sustain those who in bodily matters have to serve the Bridegroom and
the bride. And just as a person suddenly plunged into such water would become
aware of it, and, however unobservant he might be, could not fail to become so,
the same thing may be said, with even greater confidence, of these operations
to which I refer. For just as a great stream of water could never fall on us
without having an origin somewhere, as I have said, just so it becomes evident
that there is someone in the interior of the soul who sends forth these arrows
and thus gives life to this life, and that there is a sun whence this great
light proceeds, which is transmitted to the faculties in the interior part of
the soul. The soul, as I have said, neither moves from that centre nor loses
its peace, for He Who gave His peace to the Apostles when they were all
together[230] can give peace to the soul.

It has occurred to me that this salutation of the Lord must mean much more than
the mere words suggest, as must also His telling the glorious Magdalen to go in
peace;[231] for the words of the Lord are like acts wrought in us, and so they
must have produced some effect in those who were already prepared to put away
from them everything corporeal and to leave the soul in a state of pure
spirituality, so that it might be joined with Uncreated Spirit in this
celestial union. For it is quite certain that, when we empty ourselves of all
that is creature and rid ourselves of it for the love of God, that same Lord
will fill our souls with Himself. Thus, one day, when Jesus Christ was praying
for His Apostles (I do not know where this occurs),[232] He asked that they
might become one with the Father and with Him, even as Jesus Christ our Lord is
in the Father and the Father is in Him. I do not know what greater love there
can be than this. And we shall none of us fail to be included here, for His
Majesty went on to say: "Not for them alone do I pray, but also for all who
believe in Me"[233]; and again: "I am in them."[234]

Oh, God help me! How true are these words and how well the soul understands
them, for in this state it can actually see their truth for itself. And how
well we should all understand them were it not for our own fault! The words of
Jesus Christ our King and Lord cannot fail; but, because we ourselves fail by
not preparing ourselves and departing from all that can shut out this light, we
do not see ourselves in this mirror into which we are gazing and in which our
image is engraved.[235]

Let us now return to what we were saying. When Our Lord brings the soul into
this Mansion of His, which is the centre of the soul itself (for they say that
the empyrean heaven, where Our Lord is, does not move like the other heavens),
it seems, on entering, to be subject to none of the usual movements of the
faculties and the imagination, which injure it and take away its peace. I may
seem to be giving the impression that, when the soul reaches the state in which
God grants it this favour, it is sure of its salvation and free from the risk
of backsliding. But that is not my meaning, and whenever I treat of this matter
and say that the soul seems to be in safety I should be understood as meaning
for so long as the Divine Majesty holds it thus by the hand and it does not
offend Him. At all events, I know for certain that, even when it finds itself
in this state, and even if the state has lasted for years, it does not consider
itself safe, but goes on its way with much greater misgiving than before and
refrains more carefully from committing the smallest offence against God. It is
also strongly desirous of serving Him, as will be explained later on, and is
habitually afflicted and confused when it sees how little it is able to do and
how great is the extent of its obligations, which is no small cross to it and a
very grievous penance; for the harder the penance which this soul performs, the
greater is its delight. Its real penance comes when God takes away its health
and strength so that it can no longer perform any. I have described elsewhere
the great distress which this brings, but it is much greater here. This must be
due to the nature of the ground in which the soul is planted, for a tree
planted by the streams of water is fresher and gives more fruit,[236] so how
can we marvel at the desires of this soul, since its spirit is verily made one
with the celestial water of which we have been speaking?

Returning to what I was saying, it must not be thought that the faculties and
senses and passions are always in this state of peace, though the soul itself
is. In the other Mansions there are always times of conflict and trial and
weariness, but they are not of such a kind as to rob the soul of its peace and
stability -- at least, not as a rule. This "centre" of our soul, or "spirit,"
is something so difficult to describe, and indeed to believe, that I think,
sisters, as I am so bad at explaining myself, I will not subject you to the
temptation of disbelieving what I say, for it is difficult to understand how
the soul can have trials and afflictions and yet be in peace. I want to put
before you one or two comparisons: God grant they may be of some value, but, if
they are not, I know that what I have said is the truth.

A king is living in His palace: many wars are waged in his kingdom and many
other distressing things happen there, but he remains where he is despite them
all. So it is here: although in the other Mansions there are many disturbances
and poisonous creatures, and the noise of all this can be heard, nobody enters
this Mansion and forces the soul to leave it; and, although the things which
the soul hears cause it some distress, they are not of a kind to disturb it or
to take away its peace, for the passions are already vanquished, and thus are
afraid to enter there because to do so would only exhaust them further. Our
whole body may be in pain, yet if our head is sound the fact that the body is
in pain will not cause it to ache as well. These comparisons make me smile and
I do not like them at all, but I know no others. Think what you will; what I
have said is the truth.

CHAPTER III

    Treats of the striking effects produced by this prayer aforementioned. It
    is necessary to observe and remember the effects it produces, for the
    difference between them and those already described is remarkable.

As we are saying, then, this little butterfly has now died, full of joy at
having found rest, and within her lives Christ. Let us see what her new life is
like, and how different it is from her earlier one, for it is by the effects
which result from this prayer that we shall know if what has been said is true.
As far as I can understand, the effects are these.

First, there is a self-forgetfulness which is so complete that it really seems
as though the soul no longer existed, because it is such that she has neither
knowledge nor remembrance that there is either heaven or life or honour for
her, so entirely is she employed in seeking the honour of God. It appears that
the words which His Majesty addressed to her have produced their effect --
namely, that she must take care of His business and He will take care of hers.
[237] And thus, happen what may, she does not mind in the least, but lives in
so strange a state of forgetfulness that, as I say, she seems no longer to
exist, and has no desire to exist -- no, absolutely none -- save when she
realizes that she can do something to advance the glory and honour of God, for
which she would gladly lay down her life.

Do not understand by this, daughters, that she neglects to eat and sleep
(though having to do this is no little torment to her), or to do anything which
is made incumbent upon her by her profession. We are talking of interior
matters: as regards exterior ones there is little to be said. Her great grief
is to see that all she can do of her own strength is as nothing. Anything that
she is capable of doing and knows to be of service to Our Lord she would not
fail to do for any reason upon earth.

The second effect produced is a great desire to suffer, but this is not of such
a kind as to disturb the soul, as it did previously. So extreme is her longing
for the will of God to be done in her that whatever His Majesty does she
considers to be for the best: if He wills that she should suffer, well and
good; if not, she does not worry herself to death as she did before.

When these souls are persecuted again, they have a great interior joy, and much
more peace than in the state described above. They bear no enmity to those who
ill-treat them, or desire to do so. Indeed they conceive a special love for
them, so that, if they see them in some trouble, they are deeply grieved and
would do anything possible to relieve them; they love to commend them to God,
and they would rejoice at not being given some of the honours which His Majesty
bestows upon them if their enemies might have them instead and thus be
prevented from offending Our Lord.

What surprises me most is this. You have already seen what trials and
afflictions these souls have suffered because of their desire to die and thus
to enjoy Our Lord. They have now an equally strong desire to serve Him, and to
sing His praise, and to help some soul if they can. So what they desire now is
not merely not to die but to live for a great many years and to suffer the
severest trials, if by so doing they can become the means whereby the Lord is
praised, even in the smallest thing. If they knew for certain that, on leaving
the body, they would have fruition of God, their attitude would not be
affected, nor is it altered when they think of the glory which belongs to the
saints, for they do not desire as yet to attain this. Their conception of glory
is of being able in some way to help the Crucified, especially when they see
how often people offend Him and how few there are who really care about His
honour and are detached from everything else.

True, they sometimes forget this, turn with tender longing to the thought of
enjoying God and desire to escape from this exile, especially when they see how
little they are doing to serve Him. But then they turn back and look within
themselves and remember that they have Him with them continually; and they are
content with this and offer His Majesty their will to live as the most costly
oblation they can give Him. They are no more afraid of death than they would be
of gentle rapture. The explanation of this is that it is He Who gave the soul
those earlier desires, accompanied by such excessive torment, that now gives it
these others. May He be blessed and praised for ever.

In short, the desires of these souls are no longer for consolations or favours,
for they have with them the Lord Himself and it is His Majesty Who now lives in
them. His life, of course, was nothing but a continual torment and so He is
making our life the same, at least as far as our desires go. In other respects,
He treats us as weaklings, though He has ample fortitude to give us when He
sees that we need it. These souls have a marked detachment from everything and
a desire to be always either alone or busy with something that is to some
soul's advantage. They have no aridities or interior trials but a remembrance
of Our Lord and a tender love for Him, so that they would like never to be
doing anything but giving Him praise. When the soul is negligent, the Lord
Himself awakens it in the way that has been described, so that it sees quite
clearly that this impulse, or whatever it is called, proceeds from the interior
of the soul, as we said when discussing these impulses. It is now felt very
gently, but it proceeds neither from the thought nor from the memory, nor can
it be supposed that the soul has had any part in it. This is so usual and
occurs so frequently that it has been observed with special care: just as the
flames of a fire, however great, never travel downwards, but always upwards, so
here it is evident that this interior movement proceeds from the centre of the
soul and awakens the faculties.

Really, were there nothing else to be gained from this way of prayer but our
realization of God's special care for us in His communing with us and of the
way He keeps begging us to dwell with Him (for He seems to be doing nothing
less), I believe that all trials would be well endured if they led to the
enjoyment of these gentle yet penetrating touches of His love. This, sisters,
you will have experienced, for I think that, when the soul reaches the Prayer
of Union, the Lord begins to exercise this care over us if we do not neglect
the keeping of His commandments. When this experience comes to you, remember
that it belongs to this innermost Mansion, where God dwells in our souls, and
give Him fervent praise, for it is He who sends it to you, like a message, or a
letter, written very lovingly and in such a way that He would have you alone be
able to understand what He has written and what He is asking of you in it.[238]
On no account must you fail to answer His Majesty, even if you are busy with
exterior affairs and engaged in conversation. It may often happen that Our Lord
will be pleased to bestow this secret favour upon you in public, as your reply
must needs be an interior one, it will be very easy for you to do what I say
and make an act of love or exclaim with Saint Paul: "Lord, what wilt Thou have
me to do?"[239] Then He will show you many ways of pleasing Him. For now is the
accepted time: He seems indeed to be listening to us and this delicate touch
almost always prepares the soul to be able to do, with a resolute will, what He
has commanded it.

The difference between this Mansion and the rest has already been explained.
There are hardly any of the periods of aridity or interior disturbance in it
which at one time or another have occurred in all the rest, but the soul is
almost always in tranquility. It is not afraid that this sublime favour may be
counterfeited by the devil but retains the unwavering certainty that it comes
from God. For, as has been said, the senses and faculties have no part in this:
His Majesty has revealed Himself to the soul and taken it with Him into a place
where, as I believe, the devil will not enter, because the Lord will not allow
him to do so; and all the favours which the Lord grants the soul here, as I
have said, come quite independently of the acts of the soul itself, apart from
that of its having committed itself wholly to God.

So tranquilly and noiselessly does the Lord teach the soul in this state and do
it good that I am reminded of the building of Solomon's temple, during which no
noise could be heard; just so, in this temple of God, in this Mansion of His,
He and the soul alone have fruition of each other in the deepest silence. There
is no reason now for the understanding to stir, or to seek out anything, for
the Lord Who created the soul is now pleased to calm it and would have it look,
as it were, through a little chink, at what is passing. Now and then it loses
sight of it and is unable to see anything; but this is only for a very brief
time. The faculties, I think, are not lost here; it is merely that they do not
work but seem to be dazed.

And I am quite dazed myself when I observe that, on reaching this state, the
soul has no more raptures (accompanied, that is to say, by the suspension of
the senses),[240] save very occasionally, and even then it has not the same
transports and flights of the spirit. These raptures, too, happen only rarely,
and hardly ever in public as they very often did before.[241] Nor have they any
connection, as they had before, with great occasions of devotion; if we see a
devotional image or hear a sermon, it is almost as if we had heard nothing, and
it is the same with music. Previously, the poor little butterfly was always so
worried that everything frightened her and made her fly away. But it is not so
now, whether because she has found her rest, or because the soul has seen so
much in this Mansion that it can be frightened at nothing, or because it no
longer has that solitude which it was wont to have, now that it is enjoying
such companionship. Well, sisters, I do not know what the reason may be, but,
when the Lord begins to reveal the contents of this Mansion and brings souls
into it, they lose the great weakness which was such a trial to them and of
which previously they could not rid themselves. Perhaps the reason is that the
Lord has so greatly strengthened and dilated and equipped the soul, or it may
be that, for reasons which His Majesty alone knows, He was anxious to make a
public revelation of His secret dealings with such souls, for His judgments
surpass all that we can imagine here on earth.

These effects God bestows, together with all those other good effects already
described in the above-mentioned degrees of prayer, when the soul approaches
Him, and He also gives the soul that kiss for which the Bride besought Him; for
I understand it to be in this Mansion that that petition is fulfilled. Here to
this wounded hart are given waters in abundance. Here the soul delights in the
tabernacle of God.[242] Here the dove sent out by Noe to see if the storm is
over finds the olive-branch[243] -- the sign that it has discovered firm ground
amidst the waters and storms of this world.

Oh, Jesus! If only one knew how many things there are in Scripture which
describe this peace of the soul! My God, since Thou seest how needful it is for
us, do Thou inspire Christians to desire to seek it; take it not, by Thy mercy,
from those to whom Thou hast given it, and who, until Thou give them true peace
and take them where peace will never end, must always live in fear. I say
"true" peace, not because I think this peace is not true, but because in this
life war might always begin again if we were to withdraw from God.

And what will be the feeling of these souls when they realize that they might
lack so great a blessing? The thought makes them walk the more warily and
endeavour to bring strength out of their weakness, so as not to be responsible
for losing any opportunity which might offer itself to them of pleasing God
better. The more they are favoured by God, the more timorous and fearful do
they become concerning themselves, and as they have learned more about their
own wretchedness by comparing it with His greatness and their sins are now so
much more serious to them, they often go about, like the Publican, without
daring to lift up their eyes.[244] At other times, they long to reach the end
of their lives so as to be in safety, though they are soon anxious again to
live longer so that they may serve Him because of the love which they bear Him,
as has been said, and they trust all that concerns themselves to His mercy.
Sometimes the many favours they receive leave them overwhelmed, and afraid lest
they be like an overladen ship sinking to the bottom of the sea.

I assure you, sisters, that they have no lack of crosses, but these do not
unsettle them or deprive them of their peace. The few storms pass quickly, like
waves of the sea, and fair weather returns, and then the Presence of the Lord
which they have within them makes them forget everything. May He be for ever
blessed and praised by all His creatures. Amen.

CHAPTER IV

    Concludes by describing what appears to be Our Lord's aim in granting the
    soul such great favours and says how necessary it is for Martha and Mary to
    walk in each other's company. This chapter is very profitable.

You must not take it, sisters, that the effects which I have described as
occurring in these souls are invariably present all the time; it is for this
reason that, whenever I have remembered to do so, I have referred to them as
being present "habitually". Sometimes Our Lord leaves such souls to their own
nature, and when that happens, all the poisonous things in the environs and
mansions of this castle seem to come together to avenge themselves on them for
the time during which they have not been able to have them in their power.

It is true that this lasts only for a short time -- for a single day, or a
little longer, at the most -- and in the course of the ensuing turmoil, which
as a rule is the result of some chance happening, it becomes clear what the
soul is gaining from the good Companion Who is with it. For the Lord gives it
great determination, so that it will on no account turn aside from His service
and from its own good resolutions. On the contrary, these resolutions seem to
increase, and so the soul will not make the slightest move which may deflect it
from its resolve. This, as I say, happens rarely, but Our Lord's will is for
the soul not to forget what it is -- for one reason, so that it may always be
humble; for another, so that it may the better realize what it owes to His
Majesty and what a great favour it is receiving, and may praise Him.

Do not, of course, for one moment imagine that, because these souls have such
vehement desires and are so determined not to commit a single imperfection for
anything in the world, they do not in fact commit many imperfections, and even
sins. Not intentionally, it is true, for the Lord will give such persons very
special aid as to this: I am referring to venial sins, for from mortal sins, as
far as they know, they are free, though they are not completely proof against
them; and the thought that they may commit some without knowing it will cause
them no small agony. It also distresses them to see so many souls being lost;
and, although on the one hand they have great hopes of not being among them,
yet, when they remember some whom the Scriptures describe as having been
favoured of the Lord -- like Solomon, who enjoyed such converse with His
Majesty[245] -- they cannot, as I have said, but be afraid. And let whichever
of you feels surest of herself fear most, for, says David, "Blessed is the man
that feareth God."[246] May His Majesty always protect us; let us beseech Him
to do so, that we may not offend Him; this is the greatest security that we can
have. May He be for ever praised. Amen.

It will be a good thing, sisters, if I tell you why it is that the Lord grants
so many favours in this world. Although you will have learned this from the
effects they produce, if you have observed them, I will speak about it further
here, so that none of you shall think that He does it simply to give these
souls pleasure. That would be to make a great error. For His Majesty can do
nothing greater for us than grant us a life which is an imitation of that lived
by His Beloved Son. I feel certain, therefore, that these favours are given us
to strengthen our weakness, as I have sometimes said here, so that we may be
able to imitate Him in His great sufferings.

We always find that those who walked closest to Christ Our Lord were those who
had to bear the greatest trials. Consider the trials suffered by His glorious
Mother and by the glorious Apostles. How do you suppose Saint Paul could endure
such terrible trials? We can see in his life the effects of genuine visions and
of contemplation coming from Our Lord and not from human imagination or from
the deceit of the devil. Do you imagine that he shut himself up with his
visions so as to enjoy those Divine favours and pursue no other occupation? You
know very well that, so far as we can learn, he took not a day's rest, nor can
he have rested by night, since it was then that he had to earn his living[247]
I am very fond of the story of how, when Saint Peter was fleeing from prison,
Our Lord appeared to him and told him to go back to Rome and be crucified. We
never recite the Office on his festival, in which this story is found, without
my deriving a special consolation from it.[248] How did Saint Peter feel after
receiving this favour from the Lord? And what did he do? He went straight to
his death; and the Lord showed him no small mercy in providing someone to kill
him.

Oh, my sisters, how little one should think about resting, and how little one
should care about honours, and how far one ought to be from wishing to be
esteemed in the very least if the Lord makes His special abode in the soul. For
if the soul is much with Him, as it is right it should be, it will very seldom
think of itself; its whole thought will be concentrated upon finding ways to
please Him and upon showing Him how it loves Him. This, my daughters, is the
aim of prayer: this is the purpose of the Spiritual Marriage, of which are born
good works and good works alone.

Such works, as I have told you, are the sign of every genuine favour and of
everything else that comes from God. It will profit me a little if I am alone
and deeply recollected, and make acts of love to Our Lord and plan and promise
to work wonders in His service, and then, as soon as I leave my retreat and
some occasion presents itself, I do just the opposite. I was wrong when I said
it will profit me little, for anyone who is with God must profit greatly, and,
although after making these resolutions we may be too weak to carry them out,
His Majesty will sometimes grant us grace to do so, even at great cost to
ourselves, as often happens. For, when He sees a very timorous soul, He sends
it, much against its own will, some very sore trial the bearing of which does
it a great deal of good; and later, when the soul becomes aware of this, it
loses its fear and offers itself to Him the more readily. What I meant was that
the profit is small by comparison with the far greater profit which comes from
conformity between our deeds on the one hand and our resolutions and the words
we use on the other. Anyone who cannot achieve everything at once must progress
little by little. If she wishes to find help in prayer, she must learn to
subdue her own will and in these little nooks of ours there will be very many
occasions when you can do this.

Reflect carefully on this, for it is so important that I can hardly lay too
much stress on it. Fix your eyes on the Crucified and nothing else will be of
much importance to you. If His Majesty revealed His love to us by doing and
suffering such amazing things, how can you expect to please Him by words alone?
Do you know when people really become spiritual? It is when they become the
slaves of God and are branded with His sign, which is the sign of the Cross, in
token that they have given Him their freedom. Then He can sell them as slaves
to the whole world, as He Himself was sold, and if He does this He will be
doing them no wrong but showing them no slight favour. Unless they resolve to
do this, they need not expect to make great progress. For the foundation of
this whole edifice, as I have said, is humility, and, if you have not true
humility, the Lord will not wish it to reach any great height: in fact, it is
for your own good that it should not; if it did, it would fall to the ground.
Therefore, sisters, if you wish to lay good foundations, each of you must try
to be the least of all, and the slave of God, and must seek a way and means to
please and serve all your companions. If you do that, it will be of more value
to you than to them and your foundation will be so firmly laid that your Castle
will not fall.

I repeat that if you have this in view you must not build upon foundations of
prayer and contemplation alone, for, unless you strive after the virtues and
practise them, you will never grow to be more than dwarfs. God grant that
nothing worse than this may happen -- for, as you know, anyone who fails to go
forward begins to go back, and love, I believe, can never be content to stay
for long where it is.

You may think that I am speaking about beginners, and that later on one may
rest: but, as I have already told you, the only repose that these souls enjoy
is of an interior kind; of outward repose they get less and less, and they have
no wish to get more. What is the purpose, do you suppose, of these inspirations
-- or, more correctly, of these aspirations -- which I have described, and of
these messages which are sent by the soul from its innermost centre to the folk
outside the Castle and to the Mansions which are outside that in which it is
itself dwelling? Is it to send them to sleep? No, no, no. The soul, where it
now is, is fighting harder to keep the faculties and senses and every thing to
do with the body from being idle than it did when it suffered with them. For it
did not then understand what great gain can be derived from trials, which may
indeed have been means whereby God has brought it to this state, nor did it
realize how the companionship which it now enjoys would give it much greater
strength than it ever had before. For if, as David says, with the holy we shall
be holy,[249] it cannot be doubted that, if we are made one with the Strong, we
shall gain strength through the most sovereign union of spirit with Spirit, and
we shall appreciate the strength of the saints which enabled them to suffer and
die.

It is quite certain that, with the strength it has gained, the soul comes to
the help of all who are in the Castle, and, indeed, succours the body itself.
Often the body appears to feel nothing, but the strength derived from the
vigour gained by the soul after it has drunk of the wine from this cellar,
where its Spouse has brought it and which He will not allow it to leave,
overflows into the weak body, just as on the earthly plane the food which is
introduced into the stomach gives strength to the head and to the whole body.
In this life, then, the soul has a very bad time, for, however much it
accomplishes, it is strong enough inwardly to attempt much more and this causes
such strife within it that nothing it can do seems to it of any importance.
This must be the reason for the great penances done by many saints, especially
by the glorious Magdalen, who had been brought up in such luxury all her life
long; there was also that hunger for the honour of his God suffered by our
father Elias;[250] and the zeal of Saint Dominic and Saint Francis for bringing
souls to God, so that He might be praised. I assure you that, forgetful as they
were of themselves, they must have endured no little suffering.

This, my sisters, I should like us to strive to attain: we should desire and
engage in prayer, not for our enjoyment, but for the sake of acquiring this
strength which fits us for service. Let us not try to walk along an untrodden
path, or at the best we shall waste our time: it would certainly be a novel
idea to think of receiving these favours from God through any other means than
those used by Him and by all His saints. Let us not even consider such a thing:
believe me, Martha and Mary must work together when they offer the Lord
lodging, and must have Him ever with them, and they must not entertain Him
badly and give Him nothing to eat. And how can Mary give Him anything, seated
as she is at His feet, unless her sister helps her? His food consists in our
bringing Him souls, in every possible way, so that they may be saved and may
praise Him for ever.

You will reply to me by making two observations. The first, that Mary was said
to have chosen the better part[251] -- and she had already done the work of
Martha and shown her love for the Lord by washing His feet and wiping them with
her hair.[252] And do you think it would be a trifling mortification to a woman
in her position to go through those streets -- perhaps alone, for her fervour
was such that she cared nothing how she went -- to enter a house that she had
never entered before and then to have to put up with uncharitable talk from the
Pharisee[253] and from very many other people, all of which she was forced to
endure? What a sight it must have been in the town to see such a woman as she
had been making this change in her life! Such wicked people as we know the Jews
to have been would only need to see that she was friendly with the Lord, Whom
they so bitterly hated, to call to mind the life which she had lived and to
realize that she now wanted to become holy, for she would of course at once
have changed her style of dress and everything else. Think how we gossip about
people far less notorious than she and then imagine what she must have
suffered. I assure you, sisters, that that better part came to her only after
sore trials and great mortification -- even to see her Master so much hated
must have been an intolerable trial to her. And how many such trials did she
not endure later, after the Lord's death! I think myself that the reason she
was not granted martyrdom was that she had already undergone it through
witnessing the Lord's death.[254] The later years of her life, too, during
which she was absent from Him, would have been years of terrible torment; so
she was not always enjoying the delights of contemplation at the Lord's feet.

The other thing you may say is that you are unable to lead souls to God, and
have no means of doing so; that you would gladly do this, but, being unable to
teach and preach like the Apostles, you do not know how. That is an objection
which I have often answered in writing, though I am not sure if I have done so
in discussing this Castle. But, as it is a thing which I think must occur to
you, in view of the desires which the Lord implants in you, I will not omit to
speak of it here. I told you elsewhere that the devil sometimes puts ambitious
desires into our hearts, so that, instead of setting our hand to the work which
lies nearest to us, and thus serving Our Lord in ways within our power, we may
rest content with having desired the impossible. Apart from praying for people,
by which you can do a great deal for them, do not try to help everybody, but
limit yourselves to your own companions; your work will then be all the more
effective because you have the greater obligation to do it. Do you imagine it
is a small advantage that you should have so much humility and mortification,
and should be the servants of all and show such great charity towards all, and
such fervent love for the Lord that it resembles a fire kindling all their
souls, while you constantly awaken their zeal by your other virtues? This would
indeed be a great service to the Lord and one very pleasing to Him. By your
doing things which you really can do, His Majesty will know that you would like
to do many more, and thus He will reward you exactly as if you had won many
souls for Him.

"But we shall not be converting anyone," you will say, "for all our sisters are
good already." What has that to do with it? If they become still better, their
praises will be more pleasing to the Lord, and their prayers of greater value
to their neighbours. In a word, my sisters, I will end by saying that we must
not build towers without foundations, and that the Lord does not look so much
at the magnitude of anything we do as at the love with which we do it. If we
accomplish what we can, His Majesty will see to it that we become able to do
more each day. We must not begin by growing weary; but during the whole of this
short life, which for any one of you may be shorter than you think, we must
offer the Lord whatever interior and exterior sacrifice we are able to give
Him, and His Majesty will unite it with that which He offered to the Father for
us upon the Cross, so that it may have the value won for it by our will, even
though our actions in themselves may be trivial.

May it please His Majesty, my sisters and daughters, to bring us all to meet
where we may praise Him and to give me grace to do some of the things of which
I have told you, through the merits of His Son, Who liveth and reigneth for
ever, Amen. As I say this to you I am full of shame and by the same Lord I beg
you not to forget this poor miserable creature in your prayers.

JHS.

Although when I began to write what I have set down here it was with great
reluctance, as I said at the beginning, I am very glad I did so now that it is
finished, and I think my labour has been well spent, though I confess it has
cost me very little. And considering how strictly you are cloistered, my
sisters, how few opportunities you have of recreation and how insufficient in
number are your houses, I think it will be a great consolation for you, in some
of your convents, to take your delight in this Interior Castle, for you can
enter it and walk about in it at any time without asking leave from your
superiors.

It is true that, however strong you may think yourselves, you cannot enter all
the Mansions by your own efforts: the Lord of the Castle Himself must admit you
to them. So, if you meet with any resistance, I advise you not to make any
effort to get in, for if you do you will displease Him so much that He will
never admit you. He is a great Lover of humility. If you consider yourselves
unworthy of entering even the third Mansions, He will more quickly give you the
will to reach the fifth, and thenceforward you may serve Him by going to these
Mansions again and again, till He brings you into the Mansion which He reserves
as His own and which you will never leave, except when you are called away by
the prioress, whose wishes this great Lord is pleased that you should observe
as if they were His own. And even if, at her command, you are often outside
these Mansions, He will always keep the door open against your return. Once you
have been shown how to enjoy this Castle, you will find rest in everything,
even in the things which most try you, and you will cherish a hope of returning
to it which nobody can take from you.

Although I have spoken here only of seven Mansions, yet in each there are
comprised many more, both above and below and around, with lovely gardens and
fountains[255] and things so delectable that you will want to lose yourselves
in praise of the great God Who created it in His image and likeness. If you
find anything good in this book which helps you to learn to know Him better,
you can be quite sure that it is His Majesty Who has said it, and if you find
anything bad, that it has been said by me.

By the earnest desire that I have to be of some use in helping you to serve
this my God and Lord, I beg you, in my own name, whenever you read this, to
give great praise to His Majesty and beg Him to multiply His Church and to give
light to the Lutherans and to pardon my sins and set me free from Purgatory,
where perhaps, by the mercy of God,[256] I shall be when this is given you to
read, if, after being revised by learned men, it is ever published. And if
there is any error in it, that is due to my lack of understanding, for in all
things I submit to what is held by the Holy Roman Catholic Church, in which I
live, and protest and promise that I will both live and die. Praised and
blessed for ever be God our Lord. Amen, Amen.

The writing of this was finished in the convent of Saint Jose'ph of Avila, in
the year one thousand five hundred and seventy seven, on the vigil of Saint
Andrew, to the glory of God, Who liveth and reigneth for ever and ever. Amen.

                        The Nazarenes of  Mount Carmel
                 Copyright (C) 1999-2006. All rights reserved.
           The Essene Numerology Chart | Ministerial Training Course

