                              A Site Inspired By

              The Encyclopedia of New Testament Textual Criticism

                           Conceived by Rich Elliott
                         of Simon Greenleaf University
                             reelliott@verizon.net

The Encyclopedia attempts to cover all aspects of New Testament Textual
Criticism in an orderly and fair fashion.

This page is not affiliated with the print Encyclopedia, and there is no
particular reason to think the articles here will appear in the Encyclopedia
should it ever be published. I just thought the idea was so good that I decided
to create my own version of some of the articles pending the appearance of the
real thing. It should also be noted that I (Robert Waltz) am not a recognized
textual critic, and that the information on this page has not been peer
reviewed. While I have done all I could to ensure its accuracy, this page
probably should not be used as a bibliographic reference.

This page was last updated January 23, 2007. This is, believe it or not, the
tenth anniversary of this site. No wonder the updates are getting slower....

In the lists which follow, links in PLAIN TEXT point to major articles. Links
shown in italic lead to short definitions.

There are many technical issues associated with this site, mostly relating to
fonts and images. For details on how best to use this site, see the page
devoted to Technical issues.
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

A very brief (and inadequate) introduction to textual criticism can be found
here.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Articles available so far:

Go directly to: | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P
| Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X-Y-Z |

Symbols

  • [ ] (brackets)

A

  • Abbreviations: see Nomina Sacra
  • abschrift
  • al
  • Aland Categories: see Categories
  • Alexandrian Critical Symbols
  • Alexandrian Text: see Text-Types and Textual Kinship: Alexandrian Text and
    the Table of Text-Types
  • Ammonian Sections: See Divisions of the Text: The Ammonian Sections and
    Eusebian Canon Tables
  • Anglo-Saxon Version: see Versions: Anglo-Saxon
  • A Sample Critical Apparatus: Colossians
  • Arabic Version: see Versions: Arabic
  • Archetypes and Autographs
  • Armenian Version: see Versions: Armenian
  • Assured Results
  • Authorized Version: see Textus Receptus: The King James Version
  • Autograph: see Archetypes and Autographs

B

  • Short Biographies of textual critics
  • Block Mixture
  • Bohairic Version: see Versions: Bohairic
  • Books and Bookmaking Updated
  • Bover's Text: see Critical Editions: Bover
  • The Byzantine Priority Position
  • Byzantine Text: see Text-Types and Textual Kinship: Byzantine Text and the
    Table of Text-Types; also the Byzantine Priority Position

C

  • Caesarean Text: see Text-Types and Textual Kinship: Caesarean Text and the
    Table of Text-Types
  • Canons of Criticism
  • The Alands' Manuscript Categories
  • Catena: see under Commentary manuscripts
  • Catholics Manuscript Descriptions: see Manuscripts Text-Types -- Catholics
  • Chemicals and Chemical Reagents
  • Church Fathers: see Fathers
  • Claremont Profile Method
  • Classical Textual Criticism: see Non-Biblical Textual Criticism
  • Codex
  • Collations
  • Colophons: see Scribes and Colophons
  • A Sample Critical Apparatus: Colossians
  • Columns and page arrangement
  • Commentary manuscripts
  • Conjectures and Conjectural Emendation
  • Conversions: see Manuscript Numbers and Conversion Table
  • Coptic Versions: see Versions: Coptic
  • Copy Texts
  • Correctors
  • Critical Editions
  • Alexandrian Critical Symbols
  • Cryptography, Ciphers, and Hidden Texts Updated

D

  • Dates and Dating Systems
  • Destruction and Reconstruction
  • Dittography
  • Divisions of the Text

E

  • easily confused letters
  • Eclecticism
  • Editions of the Greek New Testament: see Critical Editions; also The Textus
    Receptus
  • emendatio: see under Non-Biblical Textual Criticism: emendatio
  • Emendation: see Conjectures and Conjectural Emendation
  • Ethiopic Version: see Versions: Ethiopic
  • Eusebian Canons: See Divisions of the Text: The Ammonian Sections and
    Eusebian Canon Tables
  • Euthalian Edition: See Divisions of the Text: The Euthalian Apparatus
  • Evolutionary Biology: See Genetics
  • examinatio: see under Non-Biblical Textual Criticism: examinatio
  • Examples of Textual Criticism
  • exemplar
  • External Evidence: see also Canons of Criticism: External Critical Rules
    and Text-Types and Textual Kinship

F

  • f^1; see also manuscript 1
  • f^13; see also manuscript 13
  • The Fallacy of Number
  • Fathers Updated
  • Folk Music and Song; Folklore: see Oral Transmission

G

  • The Genealogical Method
  • Genetics, Evolutionary Biology, and Evolutionary Variation NEW
  • Georgian Version: see Versions: Georgian
  • Gospels Manuscript Descriptions: see Manuscripts Text-Types -- Gospels
  • Gothic Version: see Versions: Gothic

H

  • h.a.: see under homoioteleuton
  • Haplography
  • Hebrew Textual Criticism: see Old Testament Textual Criticism
  • History of the Text
  • Hodges & Farstad's Text: see Critical Editions: Hodges and Farstad
  • homoioarcton
  • homoioteleuton
  • h.t. (and see under homoioteleuton)

I

  • Illuminated Manuscripts
  • imitations
  • Indictions: see Dates and Dating Systems: The Indictions
  • Inherent Probability, Transmissional Probability, and Transcriptional
    Probability NEW
  • Internal Evidence; see also Canons of Criticism: Internal Critical Rules
  • Introduction to textual criticism

J

  • The Jerusalem Colophon

K

  • Kephalaia: See Divisions of the Text: Kephalaia, Titloi
  • King James Version: see Textus Receptus: The King James Version

L

  • Lacuna
  • Latin Versions: see Versions: Latin
  • Lectionaries Updated
  • Lemma (lem)
  • Major manuscript Libraries
  • Lines and Lineation: see Divisions of the Text: Stichoi and Stichometry
  • Lipography
  • Local-Genealogical Method
  • Local Texts

M

  • M (Majority Text Symbol)
  • Manuscript Dates: see Dates and Dating Systems
  • Manuscript Categories: see Categories
  • Manuscript Numbers and Conversion Table
  • Manuscript Text-Types: * Gospels * Paul * Catholics *
  • Manuscript Descriptions: * Papyri * Uncials * Minuscules: * 1-500 *
    501-1000 * 1001-1500 * 1501-2000 * 2001 and up* Updated
  • Mathematics Updated
  • Memes NEW
  • Merk's Text: see Critical Editions: Merk
  • Modern-language Translations: See: Modern-languages Translations and
    textual criticism
  • Most Uncertain Readings: Where the Critical Editions Divide Updated
  • Music and Musical Notation: see Neumes

N

  • Nestle Text: see Critical Editions: Nestle Text and Nestle-Aland^26
  • Nomina Sacra
  • Non-Biblical Textual Criticism Updated
  • Non-Interpolations: see Western Non-Interpolations
  • Neumes

O

  • Old Church Slavonic Version: see Versions: Old Church Slavonic
  • Old Latin Versions: see Versions: Old Latin
  • Old Syriac Versions: see Versions: Old Syriac
  • Old Testament Quotations
  • Old Testament Textual Criticism Updated
  • Opisthograph
  • Oral Transmission Updated
  • Orihons
  • Ostraca and Talismans Updated

P

  • Paleography
  • Palimpsest
  • Patristic Evidence: see Fathers
  • Paul Manuscript Descriptions: see Manuscript Text-Types -- Paul
  • pc
  • pm
  • Praxis of Textual Criticism: see Examples of Textual Criticism
  • Primary Version
  • Profile Method: see Claremont Profile Method
  • Proof Texts: see Copy Texts
  • Purple Uncials

Q

  • Quantitative Method
  • Quire

R

  • Received Text: see Textus Receptus
  • recensio: see under Non-Biblical Textual Criticism: recensio
  • recension
  • recto
  • rell

S

  • Sahidic Version: see Versions: Sahidic
  • Scribes and Colophons Updated
  • Scriptorium
  • selectio: see under Non-Biblical Textual Criticism: selectio
  • Singular Reading
  • Stemma, Stemmatics Updated
  • Souter's Text: see Critical Editions: Souter
  • Stichoi and Stichometry: see Divisions of the Text: Stichoi and Stichometry
  • Supplements
  • Syriac Versions: see Versions: Syriac

T

  • Talismans: see Ostraca and Talismans
  • Tasker's Text: see Critical Editions: Tasker
  • Text-Types and Textual Kinship Updated
  • Theology and Textual Criticism Updated
  • Tischendorf's Text: see Critical Editions: Tischendorf
  • The Textus Receptus
  • Titloi: See Divisions of the Text: Kephalaia, Titloi
  • Modern-language Translations and textual criticism
  • [Inherent Probability,] Transmissional Probability, and Transcriptional
    Probability NEW

U

  • Uncial Script
  • United Bible Societies Text: see Critical Editions: United Bible Societies

V

  • Vaticanus's Chapters: See Divisions of the Text: The Divisions in Vaticanus
  • vid
  • v.l.
  • Versions Updated
  • verso
  • von Soden's Textual Theory: see Text-Types and Textual Kinship: Appendix
    III: Von Soden's Textual System
  • Vulgate (Latin) Version: see Versions: Vulgate

W

  • Western Non-Interpolations
  • Westcott & Hort's Text: see Critical Editions: Westcott & Hort
  • "Western" Text: see Text-Types and Textual Kinship: Western Text and the
    Table of Text-Types
  • Ancient Writing Materials Updated

X-Y-Z

  • Year of the World: see Dates and Dating Systems: The Year of the World

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Links to other Textual Criticism sites

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

This page has been visited [Count] times since January 1, 1997

And you thought nobody cared about textual criticism.
(OK, so maybe you're right....)
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Thanks to the folks who have made corrections, suggestions, and additions,
including Jean Valentin for photographs; Ulrich Schmid for information on
Wachtel; Wieland Willker for proofreading corrections; Ulrich Schmid for
information on manuscripts, Michael Holmes and Jimmy Adair for source
materials; Ulrich Schmid, Jean Valentin, Christopher Eyton, and Vincent Broman
for information on the Fathers; and anyone else whose names I have forgotten.

Send mail to page creator Robert B. Waltz (but please, only e-mail me with
suggestions or additional information; I can't answer all your questions, and
chances are any answers I know are in here anyway.) If you would like to be
added to a list informing you of updates to this page, drop me a line to that
effect.

NOTE: If you have any intention of telling me that I am damned for engaging in
textual criticism, or not using the King James Bible, please don't bother. I've
already been told repeatedly -- as well as being told that science, thought,
information, and everything this side of writing is a clear sin.

I have a long, nasty reply I'll send if you do tell me that, but let me make
one brief appeal: Whatever the authority of the New Testament text, that
authority surely lies in the original text, not the late manuscript copies, let
alone a translation made from them. One may disagree over what constitutes the
original text. But surely we should use ever tool at our disposal to try to
learn what it said.

This site is devoted to relatively scientific criticism -- that based on
analysis of data rather than faith. I've had many people tell me in some form
or other that textual criticism should be based on faith -- their faith. I
would counter-argue that people's faith differs, and if every denomination, or
every reader, has a different text, it produces real problems. (To put it
mildly.) Scientific criticism is at least relatively repeatable....

In this regard, as in so much else, Fenton John Anthony Hort gives us much
wisdom regarding textual criticism: "[In] the highest literature, and notably
in the Bible, all readers are peculiarly liable to the fallacy of supposing
that they understand the author's reading and purpose because they undertand
some part or aspect of it, which they take for the whole, and hence, in judging
variants of text, they are led unawares to disparage any word or phrase which
owes its selection by the author to those elements of thought present in his
mind which they have failed to percieve or to feel." (Introduction [and]
Appendix, S:27).

I did add one long and controversial article in this revision: About genetics
and evolution. I know some will disagree not only with the topic but with its
inclusion -- though I did my best to produce an article that's useful even if
you don't agree with evolution, and to explain why I did so. But at some point
I had to make a decision -- and it appears to me that the insights evolution
offers outweigh the risk of controversy it causes. On an issue so
controversial, I know others will disagree. Violently. (The whole issue drives
me nuts.) Again, I can only request that you not write to me. Unless you have
actual science to share (this does not include quotations from Darwin's Black
Box or anything involving Irreducible Complexity, which have been
comprehensively refuted), let's spare both our blood pressure, OK? If you don't
believe in science, then just skip the article. Please?
