Revolution of Love

Revolution of Love

Do small things with great love.

Primary menu

Skip to primary content

  • home
  • about
  • contact
  • old site
  • motherhood
  • organizing
  • recipes
  • pinterest party
  • singe life
  • downton abbey
  • 31 Days of Gratitude
  • yearly recaps

Home
Home : Start your own revolution. // "Do little things with great love." -
Blessed Mother Teresa ... Continue Reading →
Featured Post
Featured Post : THIS WEEK - 2015 Recaps: Top posts, photos, lessons and
entertainment. Happy 2016! ... Continue Reading →
Featured Page
Featured Page : THIS WEEK ----------- Are you ready for a little Downton talk?
Recap: Season 6, Episode 1 ... Continue Reading →
Featured Post
Featured Post : THIS WEEK ---- November/ December 2015 (Holiday) Goals & Review
of October Goals ... Continue Reading →
Featured Post
Featured Post : THIS MONTH: It's new planner for me! Here is how I set up and
use my bullet journal. ... Continue Reading →

January and February 2016 Goals (and a Review of my Nov/Dec Goals)

  • By bobbi
  • January 9, 2016
  • No Comments

RevolutionofLove.com - Jan & Feb 2016 Goals // logo_goals_jan_feb_2016A new
year is full of new possibilities so it was extra fun planning out my goals for
January and February of 2016 but before I dive into that, I like to review over
the goals of the last time interval – November and December.

RevolutionofLove.com - Nov/Dec Goals 2015 (goals_nov_dec_1)My main goals do not
change but my mini-goals change depending on the two month interval and what
projects I want to complete. So here is a summary of my progress and my mini
goals for January/ February 2016.

* * *

RevolutionofLove.com - goal_daughterMain Goal #1: To always have God at the
center of my life and to deepen my love for Him. I want his will to be my will
and motivation.

Nov/Dec Mini-Goals Reviewed

  • Continue with the 15 minutes of prayer in the morning using the Jesse Tree
    devotion for the first time this Advent. I won an Advent Devotional Book
    for Women from Jenny at The Littlest Way (Yay! Thanks, Jenny!) so I’ll be
    using that along with the beautiful new Advent cards from Blessed Is She. –
    Progress made but it did not go well during Christmas break. It was like I
    took a break from everything! Prayer was too often hit and miss.
  • Short exam and Act of Contrition at end of the day. – About 50/50. Needs
    more work.

Jan/Feb Mini-Goals

I’m going to keep at it until I get it down completely.

  • 15 minutes morning prayer.
  • Short exam and Act of Contrition at end of the day.

* * *

RevolutionofLove.com - goal_wifeMain Goal #2: To be a loving and holy wife to
Brian and to work at keeping our marriage strong, to nurture our friendship and
spend time alone to reconnect.

Nov/ Dec Mini-Goals Reviewed

  • Plan weekly date nights and monthly out of the house dates. Our lives are
    so centered around the kids and work that we really need to keep this up.
    It helps out so much I don’t want to it to let it slip away. – We did have
    our monthly outings but I think a little more effort needs to go into the
    stay at home dates so it’s more than just plopping on the couch and
    watching TV together.
  • Continue to make a conscious effort to thank Brian more when he does
    something for me or the kids and not just take it for granted. – For the
    most part, yes.

Jan/Feb Mini-Goals

  • Continue to plan weekly date nights and monthly out of the house dates.
    Step up the at home date nights so there is more one-on-one and not just
    passively watching a movie.
  • Brian works so hard for us, do little things to make his day easier. (ie.
    Make his lunch or clean out his coffee machine or take out the trash –
    things that he would normally do.)

* * *

RevolutionofLove.com - goal_motherMain Goal #3: To be a good mother that loves
her kids and spends time with them and is not always “too busy.” I want to
teach them about their faith and how to love and serve God in their young
lives.

Nov/Dec Mini-Goals Reviewed

  • Make an Advent Plan to help us keep our eyes on Christ and not get wrapped
    up in the materialism and busyness of the season. This year we will be
    doing the Jesse Tree for the first time and I will pick one (or two) of our
    other Advent Activities to do with the kids. – It wasn’t perfect but I did
    relatively well, all things considered.

Jan/Feb Mini-Goals

  • Use my free morning time to get all my stuff done so I can spend more
    one-on-one time with the kids during homework time in the afternoon. No
    computer/phone use in the afternoon.
  • Work with Andrew as he prepares for his First Reconciliation next month.
  • More family time activities on the weekend.

 

* * *

RevolutionofLove.com - goal_homemakerMain Goal #4: To bring order into our home
so I am not stressed out by the mess and chaos. When things are organized our
family life runs smoother and there is more peace.

Nov/Dec Mini-Goals Reviewed

  • Make a travel plan for our yearly Fall trip to Disneyland and visiting my
    family so I can enjoy the trip and be adequately organized. – Done! :-)
  • Make a Christmas plan and budget and stick to it so I am not overly
    stressed and over budget. – I made my plan and stress was greatly reduced.
    The budget was almost followed?? Okay, the truth is I went over but it was
    better than some years. So a kinda-win. 😉

Jan/Feb Mini-Goals

  • I’ve been slacking on my meal planning and going to the store too often so
    back to weekly meal plans on Sunday.

wtp_logo

  • Spend time on the weekends with Mystie’s Work the Plan course.

[q]The Complete Book of Home Organization: 200+ Tips and Projects by Toni
Hammersley

  • The mess in the house after the holidays has reached fever pitch so we need
    some serious decluttering and getting rid of things we no longer use. I am
    joining A Bowl Full of Lemon’s 2016 Home Organization 101 Challenge. Toni
    has all the info and printables available on her blog but she also has a
    cool new book (that is gorgeous to look through) with tips and more
    information to help you complete the challenge. I purchased a copy with an
    Amazon gift card I had and I can’t wait to dive in! It says we should have
    an accountability partner. Do you want to join me? I am going to talk about
    my progress on my Facebook Group RoL’s Operation Clean and Organize. 

* * *RevolutionofLove.com - goal_womanMain Goal #5 – To take care of myself
physically, spiritually and mentally so I can be a happy and healthy wife,
mother and friend. Taking care of myself mentally also means challenging myself
to come out of my comfort zone and facing my fears and trying new things.

Nov/Dec Mini-Goals Reviewed

  • Basics – water, vitamins, walk at least 20 minutes and in bed by 11 on
    school nights. – Water was good. Vitamins good until Christmas break.
    Slacked. Walking was no bueno, especially with all the rainy days. Bed by
    11 was good on school days. Again, during vacation I was in bed well after
    midnight since I could sleep in a little. Now that January is here the
    party is over and back to business.
  • Follow the plan! Don’t do what I FEEL like doing but get the priorities
    finished. This month’s motto – suck it up and get it done!…with a smile. 😉
    – Now that I am using my bullet journal this has really helped with this
    goal!

Jan/Feb Mini-Goals

  • Continued basics – water, vitamins, walk at least 20 minutes 5x a week and
    in bed by 11 on school nights.

RevolutionofLove.com - 2016 Reading Goals // goals_jan_feb_2016C

  • Turn off TV and spend 15 minutes reading before bed. I pledged on Goodreads
    to read 12 books in 2016. I am following Modern Mrs. Darcy’s Reading
    Challenge for added fun. Here are some books on my 2016 reading list. A
    couple of them are from last year’s list that I didn’t quite complete.
  • Do my evening recaps in my bullet journal and plan for the next day.

What about you? What is the one thing that you really want to work on this
month? Any thoughts about my goals? Are you doing a reading challenge? Do
share!

[2_signature_mini-]

PS – You can follow RoL on Bloglovin, Feedly or another news feed. If you are a
social media fan like me, we can stay in touch through Facebook, Twitter,
Pinterest, Periscope/Katch, GoodReads Letterboxd, Spotify or Instagram. 😉

PPS – Disclaimer: “Revolution of Love.com is a participant in the Amazon
Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to
provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking
to Amazon.com.”

In other words, if you click on my affiliated links and make a purchase, I get
a small compensation that goes towards keeping the blog online. Big hugs to
those who click and help support the blog! xoxo :-)

Like this:

Like Loading...
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Word of 2016: Balanced (Motivated by Compassion)

  • By bobbi
  • January 8, 2016
  • 2 Comments

RevolutionofLove.com - Word of the Year - Balanced // goals_jan_feb_2016A

For the last couple of years I have been choosing one word or phrase that would
be my theme of the new year. In 2013 it was “love God in little things”. In
2014 it was ora et labora (work and pray.) In 2015 it was Be Still.

So what is the word for 2016?? Balanced.

The definition of the word is “keeping or showing a balance; arranged in good
proportions.” It reminds me of something someone once told me. They explained
that your life is like a table with four legs. Each leg represents the four
main aspects of your life – physical, emotional, intellectual and spiritual.
When all four areas are balanced, then your table is strong and steady. But
when one area is lacking, like a table with a short leg, your life is wobbly
and unbalanced.

I need more balance in my life right now, especially after the holidays. I feel
like I’ve overindulged in more areas than one. I want to get things back in
order but in a realistic and do-able manner. I don’t want my goals to be too
far fetched. Instead of saying, “I will lose 50 pounds immediately!” I’ll
instead say, “I will return to my daily walking goals and put down the leftover
Christmas cookies.” Rather than, “I will dump out all the items in that junk
closet and reorganize it before the kids come home from school,”  I’ll say,
“I’ll spend 15 minutes a day tackling a small organizing project so I am not
overwhelmed. Things like that – Balanced.

RevolutionofLove.com - Word of 2016: Balanced // goals_jan_feb_2016B

For my motivation to keep up this balanced way of thinking, I will use the
second word that was heavy on my heart – Compassion. It is one thing for me to
make a resolution. But it is an entirely other thing for me to actually keep
it. I know myself. I get all gung-ho about something and then the novelty wears
off and I’m all, “Meh.” However, when there is a strong motivation, it helps me
to stay the course. For me, compassion and love are what wins me over. I am a
sucker for helping another person out and wanting to do something kind for
them. So when I am looking at my budget and am tempted to buy that “must have”
item at Target that we really can’t afford, I will think of Brian working hard
for our family to provide for us. My compassion for him as a husband and father
will be my motivation to step away from the shiny object and move on.

Likewise, when I am at home and complaining about all the stinkin laundry or
dirty dishes or the kids that keep interrupting when I am trying to get
something done, I will remember that I am their mom. I show my love for my
family by keeping a semi-tidy home and I share my love for God by stopping to
help my kiddps when they need me. My compassion for them helps me to keep a
balanced home life – not always goofing off and not doing my daily duties but
also not always so busy that I can’t stop and spend time with my kiddos.

So that’s my word for the year – Balanced, motivated by compassion.

How about you? Did you pick a word for the year? What is it?

Tomorrow I’ll share my goals for January and February. :-)

[2_signature_mini-]

PS – You can follow RoL on Bloglovin, Feedly or another news feed. If you are a
social media fan like me, we can stay in touch through Facebook, Twitter,
Pinterest, Periscope/Katch, GoodReads Letterboxd, Spotify or Instagram. 😉

Like this:

Like Loading...
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

TV Talk: Downton Abbey Recap: Season 6, Episode 1

  • By bobbi
  • January 5, 2016
  • No Comments

I was debating whether or not to bother doing another season of Downton recaps
but once I saw the show I couldn’t help but share a few things (at least so my
mom and I can chat about it.) 😉

As usual, I am not doing a word for word recount of what happened because
first, I am short on time and second there are many, many others recappers out
there that handle the job much better than I could. Instead, here are my
thoughts about last night’s episodes and my favorite quotes. The usual SPOILER
ALERT for anyone that has not watched Season 6, Episode 1 yet.

logo_downton_season_6W_Okay, let me start off by saying that I love Downton,
truly I do. And I loved watching last night’s episode but there was a bit of
“been there done that” in the episode. It makes me a little glad that the
season will be ending since you can only stretch these story lines out for so
long and I want them to go out on a high note.

downton_season_6_ep_2A  Photo Credit: pbs.org

Mary and the Blackmailer

This is not the first time a blackmailer has reared his or her ugly head in
general, with Mary in particular. We get our first glimpse at our culprit the
first few minutes of the episode. Immediately, our Downton sensors started
blaring that this person was no good and the smirk she wore as Lady Mary fell
off her horse confirmed it. Later, we found out that Miss Rita Bevan was one of
the chambermaids  at the hotel where Mary was illicitly staying with Tony
Gillingham. (You know, the episode, where we lost all respect for him as a
strong and worthy gentleman.)

Miss Bevan had proof of Mary’s tryst and threatened to expose her if she did
not pay 1000 pounds. Now, Mary is not my favorite character (except when she
was with Matthew, who brought the best out of her) but I was pleased that she
stood up for herself against this nasty piece of work, particularly after she
lied and barged her way into Lady Mary’s bedroom. In the end, Miss Beven
brought her blackmail to Robert and he cleverly counter blackmailed by giving
her a mere 50 pounds in exchange for a signed confession of her crime. If she
should publish her story or even show her face there again, Robert would
prosecute her.

I suppose this was just the writer’s round about way of getting Robert to see
Mary as a capable woman who could manage the estate, although I am not exactly
sure how this situation revealed that, but it was heartwarming to see the
momentary tearing up of Mary at the news that her father believed in her. I
guess it made it all worth it. Plus, the matter was handled quickly and the
story didn’t drag on.

Please, Please, Please Let Me Get What I Want

Speaking of stories that drag on way past their expiration date, we finally
reached a conclusion to the Anna, Bates, murder of Mr. Green saga. The whole
reasoning seemed rather forced and convoluted but in the end an unknown woman
confessed to arguing with Green and pushing him to his death. Was she a
stranger? Was she another of his victims (my suspicion)? We may never know but
whatever the case, that ongoing drama is finally over!! Yay!

But alas, don’t think for a minute that Julian Fellowes will allow our beloved
couple to now experience a moment of happiness. Oh, noooo. I’m beginning to
suspect he shared my youthful love of The Smiths because melancholy seems to be
the theme these last few season. Anna is still in constant emotional pain and
tears, this time because she has suffered yet another miscarriage and faces
possible infertility. Seriously? They cannot even give the poor girl a moment
of peace? The only silver lining was when Anna said things like “I’ve let you
down” we got to hear saintly Mr. Bates utter words such as, “There are no words
less true than those. You could never let me down…”

Well, maybe now that the extreme stress of possibly being sent to jail has been
removed and the advancement of science will improve her chances of conceiving.
Either that or they come across the sweetest orphan child that longs for a
loving mother and father. I’d be happy with either scenario. Please, please,
please let me get what I want this time…to see Anna smile and be happy before
she is gone forever.

Okay, that is enough about the nit-picking. Now onto the bits of the episode
that were priceless.

 downton_season_6_ep_5A Photo Credit: pbs.org

Denker vs Pratt

Why is there always people in life who are like the Dowager’s maid Denker.
People with delusions of grandeur that delight in psychologically torturing
others. When the Dowager confided in Denker that Downton may have to let some
of the staff go, she asked Denker to keep it to herself. Well, that is like
asking a child not to touch the chocolate cake sitting before them. The
temptation was too great. She was soon at Downtown harassing the servants about
the situation. Next on her list was her archenemy Pratt, aka, Mr
-I-always-look-like-I’m-smelling-a-rotten-egg. She was all too eager to let him
know that he would soon be out of a job. However, Pratt got the last laugh when
the Dowager “accidentally” says to Denker, “You are a wonder, Denker. I shall
miss you.” She went on to let Denker believe that she would be the one fired if
it came down to it. That shut Denker up immediately. Long live Grandmama’s iron
fist.

downton_season_6_ep_4APhoto Credit: pbs.org

Let’s (Not) Talk about Sex

We left last season with Mr Carson and Mrs Hughes engaged to be married. Fast
forward a few months and Mrs. Hughes has had the opportunity to think about
what her marriage would entail – namely, intimacy with her husband. It was
rather humorous watching Mrs. Hughes and gal pal Mrs. Patmore tiptoe around the
subject of sex without actually saying the word. But that wasn’t half as
amusing as watching poor Mrs. Patmore try to bring up the subject with Mr.
Carson… Mr. Carson. She is one of my favorite characters and I felt for her as
she painfully (and hilariously) tried to ask Mr. Carson if he anticipated Mrs.
Hughes to perform her “wifely duties” after they were married. Finally, he got
the gist of the conversation and became equally embarrassed over the situation.
But in true Carson manner, he eventually rose above the occasion with his
dignity intact and sensitively said, “In my eyes she is beautiful. You say she
asks if I want a full marriage. And the answer is, yes, I do. I want a real
marriage. A true marriage with everything that that involves. And I hope I do
not ask the indelicate when I send you back to relay this message….I love her
Mrs. Patmore. I am happy and ticked and bursting with pride that she would
agree to be my wife, and I want us to live as closely as two people can for the
time that remains to us on earth.” Wow, Mr. Carson just made women across
American swoon.

When Mrs. Hughes and Mr. Carson finally came together to discuss the situation,
Mr. Carson assumed that Mrs. Hughes want to call off the engagement. She was
honest with him about her fear of disappointing him but he reassured her and
gave her one of the most heart felt kisses we’ve witnessed at Downton. So
incredibly sweet.

Random Thoughts

  • There is a storyline about the running of the local hospital. I’m sure it
    will grew in importance but at the moment I just enjoy watching Isobel and
    the Dowager spar with one another as they sit at opposite ends of the
    argument.
  • Cora is not going to sit quietly as Isobel and Violet duke it out over the
    hospital. I believe she will have her say in the fight eventually.
  • I loved Mary’s last minute hairstyle after she had to unexpectedly wash it.
    It still makes me laugh how the maid would dress you and do your hair.
    Although if I could afford such a maid, I’d surely have someone magically
    tame the mop on my head. 😉
  • Branson is in Boston and little Sibby is attending school where, it is
    noted with slight disdain, she is most likely speaking with an American
    accent. (Well, I must admit that a British accent does sound far superior
    to an American one. 😉
  • Rose and her hubby are having fun in New York.
  • Robert and Carson continue to lament the end of the good old days. Does it
    seem that Robert is drinking much more these days?
  • Daisy went toe to toe with the new owners of the Mallerton estate but
    frankly, all I could do was insist to Brian that the actor that played Sir
    John Darnley was Mr. Wickham from the 1995 Pride and Prejudice. What did
    people do before they had google at their finger tips to solve such
    quandaries?? :-)
  • Thomas has been softened, not playing any evil tricks this episode. He
    appears quite the opposite, playfully giving George a piggy back ride. It
    was rather sweet. Let’s see if that changes.
  • I love the scene of Cora and Robert in the kitchen eating cold chicken out
    of the fridge as the servants drank the very good Veuve Cliquot from the
    very cool part of the cellar. It was a definite “sign of the times.” Also,
    wasn’t it a little odd that Robert apologized to Carson for being in a
    kitchen that was in his home?
  • Edith is still a little Eeyore-ish and  uncertain about her future, but at
    least she has her beautiful (if unacknowledged) daughter with her and she
    is looking lovely in her outfits!

downton_season_6_ep_1APhoto Credit: pbs.org

Fave Quotes

  • Mrs.  Hughes: I am not sure I can let him (Carson) see me as I am now.”
  • Mrs. Patmore: “Perhaps you can keep the lights off.”

  • Pratt: “I just hope you will be kind enough to give me sufficient warning.”
  • The Dowager: (Dumbfounded.) “I’m sorry, what?”
  • Pratt: “So I may find myself alternative employment before I am cast out.”
  • The Dowager: “Oh, Spratt You’ve clearly had a bad dream and are confusing
    it with reality.”
  • Pratt: “Your ladyship’s humor is always a tonic but it is a matter of some
    importance to me.”
  • The Dowager: “If you were talking in Urdu I couldn’t understand you less.”

 

  • Mrs. Patmore: “Well, you’ve got a nerve. Mr. Carson won’t like that.”
  • Daisy: “Well, even Mr. Carson can’t always have his own way.”
  • Mrs. Patmore: “Ooohooh!

 

  • Lady Mary (to Robert): “I’m impressed. My darling Papa transformed into
    Machiavelli at a touch . Will wonders never cease?”

 

  • Violet (to Isobel): “Does it ever get cold on the moral high ground?”

 

  • Mrs. Hughes: (Speaking of Ms Patmore’s conversation with Mr. Carson) “He
    avoided vulgarity then?”
  • Mrs. Patmore: “Vulgarity? Mr. Carson wouldn’t be vulgar if you put him on a
    seaside postcard.”

Fun Links to Enjoy

  • Real World Downton Abbey by thelazygeniuscollective.com – This is pure eye
    candy for Downton lovers. From the oldest to the youngest actors – they all
    look gorgeous! I am a happily married woman but if I was single (and 20
    years younger) I’d have my bedroom walls plastered with photos from this
    post. 😉
  • Downton Abbey With American Accents is Absolutely Hysterical by
    townandcountrymag.com (Mary doing uptalk is hilarious.)

Okay, your turn! Thoughts? Favorite scenes? Favorite quotes? Do share!

[2_signature_mini-]

PS – You can follow RoL on Bloglovin, Feedly or another news feed. If you are a
social media fan like me, we can stay in touch through Facebook, Twitter,
Pinterest, GoodReads, Letterboxd or Instagram. 😉

Like this:

Like Loading...
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

2015 Recap (Part 4): Year in Review and Top Posts of 2015

  • By bobbi
  • January 4, 2016
  • 2 Comments

I was going to make the final touch ups to this last night and post it but then
I remembered that Downton Abbey was about to start. Needless to say, the
Crawleys won my attention. (I’m still debating whether I should do Downton
Abbey recaps this year or not…) Anyway, here is the final 2015 Recap post.
Enjoy!

RevolutionofLove.vom - 2015 In Review and Top Posts //logo_2015_review

2015 Recap (Part 1): Entertainment & Social Media Faves of the Year

2015 Recap (Part 2): 5 Lessons God Taught Me in 2015

2015 Recap (Part 3): 2015 in 12 Photos & Link-up

2015 Recap (Part 4): Top 10 Posts of 2015

* * * * *

Today I am joining the lovely ladies at Like Mother, Like Daughter for A Year
in Review and Top Posts of 2015.

Instead of the usual Top 10 posts list I wanted to be able to see at a glance
what I wrote about in 2015 so I listed the links I posted this year and
highlighted those that were the most popular.That way, it makes it easier for
me to look back in years to come. :-)

© revolution of love - Year in Review -1_jan_W

In January I posted…

 Popular Post #10

Revolution of Love Blog - paradox_loveLoving Until It Hurts

AND

Popular Post #5

http://revolutionoflove.com//wp-content/uploads/2014/05/logo_daybookW.jpg

Online Daybook – January Days 2015: A Wedding, Awards & Thoughts about Paul
Coakley

In January, I also:

  • Reviewed over the previous year with the 2014 Year in Review with Favorite
    Posts.
  • Obsessed over Downton Abbey and wrote Downton Abbey Commentary Posts
  • Celebrated with friends with an Epiphany Party.
  • Chose a word/theme of the year – Be Still.
  • Made Goals for 2015 & Mini-Goals for January & February
  • Wrote more updates with 7 Quick Takes (1/24/15): Brian & Opa Updates & Lent
    Preparations.

 

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -2_feb_W

In February I posted…

Popular Post #3

revolution of love blog - Lenten ideas for the home. lent_2015_aPinterest Party
& Link-up (vol 35): The Lent Edition

AND

Popular Post #9 / 2nd Most Commented Post

Revolution of Love Blog - 15 Marriage Lessons in 15 Years (logo_marriage)
Learning to Love: 15 Marriage Lessons in 15 Years

In February I also…

  • Shared some random thoughts in 7 Quick Takes (2/8/15): The Weekend Edition.
  • Talked about my health progress in Weigh-in-Wednesday: February 2015 Update
    .
  • Talked about pop culture in 7 Quick Takes (2/13/15): Hubby Loving,
    Heartfelt Words & 50 Shades of Grey.
  • Made Lenten Goals in Create in Me A Clean Heart.
  • Showed you a A Look at My 2015 (Erin Condren) Planner.
  • Shared my tearful struggle with seeing my father-in-law’s change after his
    stroke and my current tv obsession in 7 Quick Takes (2/28/15): Tears,
    Conferences & Period Movies.

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -3_march_W

In March, I…

  • Shared my Five Favorite Exercise Tips.
  • Talked about prayer, Cinderella and what’s cooking in the kitchen in my
    Online Daybook/Currently: Mid-March 2015.
  • Wrote a guest post for Fumbling toward Grace called I Am the Handmaid of
    the Lord.
  • Talked about what’s currently going on in Online Daybook & 7 QT (3/30/15):
    Kindness, Dances & iZombie.

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -4_april_W

In April I posted…

Popular Post #4 & The Most Commented Post

revolution of love blog - cwbn_logoCWBNCA Conference 2015: Journal & Recap

 

In April I also…

  • Shared my heart in When It’s Hard to Be Joyful at Easter.
  • Talked about my current Five Favorites: Podcasts.
  • Shared childhood memories and 20 facts about me in  7 Quick Takes (4/10/
    15): Easter, Siblings & 20 Facts.
  • Talked about the current events on my life in Online Daybook (4/21/14):
    Gilbert Blythe, Point Lobos and A Catholic Conference.

 

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -5_may_WIn May I…

  • Shared the latest in Online Daybook & 7 Quick Takes (5/8/15): Catching Up,
    The Water Diviner & Mini Super Heroes.
  • Started a new blog series – Saturday Spotlight: Jenna at Call Her Happy.
  • Talked about the latest in Online Daybook & 7 Quick Takes (5/15/15): Stress
    vs Prayer, The Break & Adaline.
  • Shared my 5 Favorite Natural Health & Beauty Products.
  • Gave more updates with my Online Daybook & 7 Quick Takes (5/22/15): Smog
    Checks, New Logos & Prompts from the Holy Spirit.
  • I updated two previous blog posts – Dating Mr. Wrong: Questions to Ask
    about Your Relationship AND Dating Q&A: I May Have Faults but Can’t I Want
    a Guy to Like Me as I Am and Not Expect Me to Be Perfect?

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -6_june_W

In June I posted…

The Most Popular Pinterest Party Recipe

Revolution of Love - Slow Cooker Pulled Pork - pp_pork_5Pinterest Party &
Link-up (vol 36): Slow Cooker Pulled Pork

In June I also…

  • Went to a lot of movies and shared on Online Daybook (6/8/15) & 7 Quick
    Takes: Birthdays, Books & Movie Reviews.
  • Made Summer Goals.
  • Went on vacation and shared about it with an Online Daybook: Lake Tahoe
    2015 Edition.

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -7_july_W

In July I…

  • Shared my Five Favorites: Summer Activities with Kids at Lake Tahoe.
  • Played Answer Me This: 4th of July 2015 Edition.
  • Made my favorite Homemade Coconut Granola.
  • Shared the latest with Online Daybook (7/13/15), 7QT & Answer Me This:
    Entertainment Edition and 7 Quick Takes (7/19/15) & Answer Me This.
  • Shared updates with Online Daybook (7/31/15) & 7 Quick Takes: Brian Update,
    Confession & Movies.

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -8_aug_W

In August I posted a…

Popular Post #6

Revolution of Love - Saturday Spotlight (logo_saturday_spotlight_3)Saturday
Spotlight: Erica of Be A Heart

 

In August I also…

  • Made delicious Country Potato Salad.
  • Shared current events in Saturday 7 Quick Takes (8/8/15): Periscopes,
    Podcasts and Pirates.
  • Shed tears while Sharing in Sam and Nia’s Joy & Loss: Every Life Matters.
  • Got busy cleaning and Organizing My Bathroom Shelves and Walls.
  • Celebrated my birthday with 7 Quick Takes (8/21/15): Brunch, Birthday &
    Blessings.
  • Talked about the latest with an Online Daybook & 7 Quick Takes (8/28/15):
    School, Parties and Prayer.
  • Listened to My Favorite Songs of Summer 2015.

 

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -9_sept_W

In September I…

  • Made September 2015 Goals (& A Review of My Summer Goals).
  • Created a Holy Spirit Prayer {Free} Printable & Bookmarker.
  • Shared my heart in Online Daybook (9/22/15): Downton, Star Wars and Blog
    Bashing.
  • Talked about my hopes for fall in Tuesday Tidbits – Online Courses and
    Projects for October: 31 Days, Hand Lettering and Making a Plan.

 

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -10_0ct_W

In October I…

Surprised myself by completing a writing challenge and posted 31 Days in a row!

RevolutionofLove.com - 31 Days of Gratitude 2015 (logo_31_days_2015)31 Days of
Gratitude Homepage

AND POSTED THE

Popular Post #2

RevolutionofLove.com - A look at my EC Planner (2015-16)(logo_planner_16_A)A
Look at My (Erin Condren) Planner

AND

Popular Post #8

logo_7_quick_takes_c27 Quick Takes (10/23/15): Flashback Friday and Quick
Take-Palooza

In October I also…

  • Participated in the writing class #LoveYourLettering.
  • Listed my October 2015 Goals (& A Review of My September Goals).

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -11_nov_W

In November I posted…

Popular Post #7

RevolutionofLove.com - Creating A Sacred Space in Your Home - altar_collage_2
Pinterest Party & Link-up (vol 41): A Sacred Space for Family Prayer

In November I also…

  • Worked on my photography with Theme Thursday topics  Catchlights AND
    Portraits: Close-ups.
  • Shared my November/ December 2015 (Holiday) Goals & A Review of My October
    Goals.
  • Shared a week in my life…
      □ Monday & Tuesday
      □ Wednesday & Thursday
      □ Friday
      □ Saturday & Sunday
  • Wrote a guest post for Blessed Is She – Living A Life of Gratitude.
  • Shared Advent Activities for Kids and Catholic Women & Moms.

 

* * * * *

© revolution of love - Year in Review -12_dec_W

In December I wrote a…

Popular Post #1

RevolutionofLove.com - How I Use My Bullet Journal // planner_bujo_logoHow I
Use My Bullet Journal

In December I also…

  • Made my first Jesse Tree.
  • Shared the latest Online Daybook (12/11/15) & Theme Thursday & 7 Quick
    Takes.
  • Gave advice in How to Choose the Right Planner.
  • Opened up with When All You See Is Your Advent Fail.
  • Shared instgram pics with #holylens (Weeks 3-4).
  • Wished everyone a Merry Christmas 2015.
  • Reminisced in 2015 Recap (Part 1): Entertainment & Social Media Faves of
    the Year.
  • Reminisced in 2015 Recap (Part 2): 5 Lessons God Taught Me in 2015.
  • Reminisced in 2015 Recap (Part 3): 2015 in 12 Photos & Link-up.

That was a fun look back. :-) I hope you and your family have a blessed, holy
and joy filled new year!! xoxo

[2_signature_mini-]

PS – You can follow RoL on Bloglovin, Feedly or another news feed. If you are a
social media fan like me, we can stay in touch through Facebook, Twitter,
Pinterest, GoodReads, Letterboxd or Instagram. 😉

Like this:

Like Loading...
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Join the Project Blessed Prayer Pledge

  • By bobbi
  • January 2, 2016
  • 1 Comment

PROJECT BLESSED PRAYER PLEDGE

Happy New Year!! I was hoping to make a post yesterday but the day was devoted
to family time but I hope you had a wonderful day.

I just wanted to pop in to make sure you know about the Blessed Is She Project
Blessed Prayer Pledge. We want to start off the year right and what better way
than to be united as a sisterhood praying for the next 31 days to our heavenly
Father. There is no set prayer style so you can do whatever works best for you.
There is no set age group or marital status – so whether you are single, a mom
of young ones, a mom of teens or a grandma, we want you to join us!

The main thing is to pledge to set a side a little time each day to recollect
and turn your heart to God and to pray for the other women signed up. Thar’s
it.

Don’t worry if you’re late joining. I literally just signed the pledge now
because I forgot to do it earlier. (See what happens when my planner also takes
a holiday! It’s time to get back to business.) 😉

To sign up, make a pledge to join us here.

To jump right into today’s prayer prompt, click here.

I look forward to spending this time of prayer with you. xoxo

[2_signature_mini-]

PS – You can follow RoL on Bloglovin, Feedly or another news feed. If you are a
social media fan like me, we can stay in touch through Facebook, Twitter,
Instagram, Pinterest, Periscope or Katch (past Periscopes), GoodReads,
Letterboxd, or Spotify, 😉

Like this:

Like Loading...
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • Previous
  • 

Revolution of Love - label_welcome_c

ba_portrait_A_4_16_B

Hi! I'm Bobbi. I'm a wife to an amazing guy and a mama to a teen daughter & 3
rambunctious little boys. Join me as I learn to love God in the midst of
dishes, laundry and swinging light sabers. Let's chat about faith, mothering,
homemaking, my attempt at organizing my messy life, movies, tv, music and other
random things. (Preferably while eating chocolate.)

Revolution of Love - label_peek_c

Recent Posts

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • January and February 2016 Goals (and a Review of my Nov/Dec Goals)
  • Word of 2016: Balanced (Motivated by Compassion)
  • TV Talk: Downton Abbey Recap: Season 6, Episode 1
  • 2015 Recap (Part 4): Year in Review and Top Posts of 2015
  • Join the Project Blessed Prayer Pledge
  • 2015 Recap (Part 3): 2015 in 12 Photos & Link-up
  • 2015 Recap (Part 2): 5 Lessons God Taught Me in 2015

Join the Pinterest Party

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

pinterest_logo_new_640The Advent/Christmas Pinterest Party for December 2015 is
here.

RevolutionofLove.com - Creating A Sacred Space in Your Home - altar_collage_2
The Sacred Space Link-up is open through 2016.
Revolution of Love - label_stay_c_new
Revolution of Love - button_FB_140c Revolution of Love - button_TW_140c
Revolution of Love - button_IG_140cRevolution of Love - button_PT_140c
Revolution of Love - button_GP_140c Revolution of Love - button_GR_140c
Revolution of Love - button_SP_140c Revolution of Love - button_LB_140c
Revolution of Love - label_subscribe_c
Revolution of Love - button_BL_140cbutton_FL_140c

subscribe via email

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of
new posts by email.

Email Address

[Subscribe]

Revolution of Love - label_peek_c
[Type KeyWord        ]
Search
Archives

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Archives [Select Month        ]

categories

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
categories[Select Category                           ]

tags

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
7 quick takes 31 days about me advent answer me this backstory books brian
cancer catholic faith christmas currently dating downton abbey end of the year
review family chit chat five favorites gratitude homemaking just for fun lent
making it count married life monterey bay monthly goals motherhood movies music
online daybook online daybook operation clean & organize organizing period
movies photography pinterest party planners prayer pretty-happy-funny-real
recipe recipes single life theme thursday travel tv week in my life
Revolution of Love - label_back_c
[logo_pin_journey1]

[logo_pin_journey2]

[logo_pin_wed]

[logo_pin_brm_birth]

[logo_pin_miscarriage]

[logo_pin_cancer_1]

[logo_pin_cancer_2]

Revolution of Love - label_top_c

Top Posts & Pages

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

  • How I Use My Bullet Journal
    How I Use My Bullet Journal
  • Babyproofing the Fireplace Area
    Babyproofing the Fireplace Area
  • A Look at My 2015 (Erin Condren) Planner
    A Look at My 2015 (Erin Condren) Planner
  • My Journey to God (Part 2): Me? A Nun?
    My Journey to God (Part 2): Me? A Nun?
  • Pinterest Party & Link-up (Vol 9): Mini Traveling Office
    Pinterest Party & Link-up (Vol 9): Mini Traveling Office
  • A Christmas Letter to Baby Jesus (Instead of Santa)
    A Christmas Letter to Baby Jesus (Instead of Santa)
  • How to Choose the Right Planner
    How to Choose the Right Planner
  • Pinterest Party & Link-up (vol 40): Planner Edition - A Look at My (Erin
    Condren) Planner
    Pinterest Party & Link-up (vol 40): Planner Edition - A Look at My (Erin
    Condren) Planner
  • TV Talk: Bob Duncan's Weight Loss
    TV Talk: Bob Duncan's Weight Loss
  • Our Engagement Story: An Answer to Prayer
    Our Engagement Story: An Answer to Prayer

lRevolution of Love - abel_web_c

also find me at – blessed is she

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
bis_contributer_logo_300

nominated

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
sheenazing_2015_ Nom_SA_300 I've been nominated for The Sheenazing Blogger
Awards in the category "Best Under Appreciated Blog." Thank you, dawling. Mwah!
Revolution of Love - label_affiliates_c

Revolution of Love Blog - erin_condren_ad2

[2092-79099] *

PicMonkey Photo editing made of win

Copyright (C) 2016 Revolution of Love. All Right Reserved.
Powered by: WordPress | Theme: Simple Catch Pro
web analytics
%d bloggers like this:

