ULC

  • About ULC
      □ About ULC
      □ What We Believe
      □ Worship at ULC
      □ Our Pastor
      □ ULC History
      □ Directions
  • News/Events
      □ Build It Back
      □ This Week - Calendar & Notes
      □ Current Newsletter
      □ Newsletter Archive
  • For Students
      □ New Students
      □ Get Involved
      □ Bible Studies
      □ Rides to Church
      □ Common Chest
      □ Lutheran Student Fellowship
      □ Christ on Campus
      □ Retreats
  • Programs
      □ Bible Studies
      □ Fall Retreat
      □ Music at ULC
      □ Arts at ULC
      □ Sunday School
      □ V.B.S.
  • Resources
      □ Sunday's Sermon
          ☆ Sermon Archive
      □ Daily Devotions
      □ Bookstore
      □ Loehe Library
      □ For Members
          ☆ Minutes
          ☆ Constitution
      □ For Clergy
      □ ULC Manuals
          ☆ Weddings
          ☆ Ushers
          ☆ Liturgical Assistants
      □ Pastor Kind's Writings
      □ Prof. Pless's Writings
      □ Book of Concord
      □ Sale of ULC Info
  • Support
      □ Build It Back (Save ULC)
      □ Donate Online
      □ Donate by Mail
      □ Regular Support
      □ ULC Endowment

 

 

 

Worship Schedule

Divine Service
Sundays 10 a.m. - at Luther Seminary's Chapel of the Cross, in Northwestern
Hall - 1501 Fulham Street, St. Paul

Private Confession & Absolution
by appointment

Matins Service
Mondays at 7 AM at Luther House

Evening Prayer Service
Wednesdays at 7:30 PM at Luther House

 

Bible Studies

Sunday Morning - 8:45 a.m. - II Timothy - at Luther Seminary's Northwestern
Hall - 1501 Fulham Street, St. Paul

LSF Sunday Lunch Next topic: TBA

Table Talk
6:00 PM Wednesdays at Luther House - TBA

Women's Bible Study 10:30 a.m. Every other Thursday at Luther House - Topic:
Song of Solomon

Didache - Adult Catechesis - 7:30 p.m. See Pastor Kind if interested.

Friday Evening
Topic: TBA 7:30 p.m., February 12

LCMS-UWelcome to University Lutheran Chapel! We are a campus ministry
congregation of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod dedicated to serving
students and the community with the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ.

chaliceIf you are a student attending the U of M or another Twin Cities
college, or someone who is simply interested in a faithful, sacramental and
liturgical church, we invite you to join us as we grow in Christ by receiving
His gracious gifts of forgiveness, life and salvation.

We are currently holding our Sunday services at Luther Seminary's Chapel of the
Cross (Northwestern Hall, 1501 Fulham Street, St. Paul), about midway between
the Minneapolis and St. Paul campuses of the U of M. Rides on Sunday are
provided from the dorms at the U of M and from Concordia University (and other
places by arrangment). Our weekday activites are centered at Luther House which
is located just off campus on the corner of 10th Ave SE and 4th St SE in
Dinkytown.

worshipIf you'd like to be on our email or snail mail lists to get more
information and regular updates, please drop us an email with your name and
email or snail mail address. We hope we'll meet you soon, if we haven't
already!

Enjoy browsing; and remember, our website is updated at least once a week with
news, sermons, and more! Be sure to stop back soon.

Loading

donate

What's New at ULCMN.org?

Check out the latest on our building efforts at buildulc.org!

ULC is on Facebook too. Click here to go our ULC FB Page, or click here to go
to the LSF FB page. Be sure to "like" us.

 

University Lutheran Chapel - 316 10th Ave SE, Minneapolis, MN 55414 -
612-331-2747

