  • [ir]
  • [ger]
  • [esp]
  • [skorea]

Staff
Parents
Past Pupils
Company logo

  • College Profile
  • Franciscan Community
  • Clanns
  • College Life
  • Sports
  • Curriculum
  • Summer Courses
  • Guidance

 
 

BAKE SALE

A very successful Bake Sale was held on Wednesday 21st October, 2015 to raise
funds for sports activities within the school.

We are very pleased to report that over Euro 550.00 was raised on the day.  A
very big thank you to all who contributed on the day.

Bake Sale October, 2015

INVITATION TO OPEN NIGHT AT GORMANSTON PARK

WEDNESDAY 16TH DECEMBER 2015 FROM 7.00 PM TO 8.00 PM 

 

Please refer to Invitation under 'College Documents' section of this home page

OPEN NIGHT GORMANSTON PARK

AFTER SCHOOL STUDY

Please note After School Study will begin from Wednesday 2nd September 2015 -
3.30 pm to 5.30 pm.  Will continue daily.  Please refer to letter to parents
dated 20th August for daily After School Study times  (copy of letter under
College Documents on home page of this website).  

AFTER SCHOOL STUDY

PROMOTING POSITIVE MENTAL HEALTH

"Frranciscan College honoured for their efforts in promoting positive mental
health"

 

Please refer to full article under College Documents 

Cycle Against Suicide

ROAD SAFETY

Students are reminded to wear a HIGH VISIBILITY JACKET when walking to and from
school.

If you do not have a High Visibility Jacket please see Mr. Dunne, Deputy
Principal and one will be provided.

PLEASE STAY SAFE

HIGH VISIBILITY JACKETS

'NEWELL LIBRARY' OPENING

It is with great pleasure we announce that our newly refurbished Newell Library
will be open for students use after the mid term break.

'NEWELL LIBRARY' OPENING

CHRISTMAS MARKET 5TH DECEMBER 2015

The Christmas Market was a great success even allowing for the very bad weather
conditions.  Over Euro 1,000.00 was raised on the day which will go a long way
towards providing sports equipment for our students.

Thank you for your continued support.

CHRISTMAS MARKET 2015

CONGRATULATIONS

TO OUR UNDER 16 GAELIC FOOTBALL TEAM WHO ARE NOW MEATH CHAMPIONS AND WILL GO
FORWARD TO THE LEINSTER CHAMPIONSHIP

 

UNDER 16 GAELIC FOOTBALL TEAM CONGRATULATIONS

SENIOR CYCLE OPTIONS INFORMATION EVENING

Information Meeting for all existing and prospective Transition Year and 5th
Year students, parents and guardians

Monday 8th February 2016 - 5.30pm to 7.30pm

Application Form available for download under 'college document' section of
this page

Senior Cycle Options

SCHOOL OPENING HOURS

Canteen gates will open from 7.45 am to facilitate students who arrive to
school early.  As previously advised students may congregate in the canteen.
 The main school will open from 8.30 am.  

 

SCHOOL OPENING HOURS

RED T-SHIRT DAY AT GORMANSTON

6th Year students organised a day in solidarity with refugees across Europe.
 Everyone wore a red t-shirt as a symbol of the crisis.  Over € 600 was raised
for GOAL, a charity supporting this initiative.  Well done to all involved.

Red T Shirt Day at Gormanston

POLICY UPDATES

Update of College Policies and Reports can be found under the 'College
Document' section on this home page.

POLICY UPDATES

ROSE OF TRALEE 2015

   

Congratulations to Elysha Brennan winner of 2015 International Rose of Tralee
and past pupil of Franciscan College Gormanston.   Keeping the flag flying for
Clann Froinsias!

ROSE OF TRALEE 2015

AFTERNOON TEA AT THE CASTLE

Please see review under "College Document" section on this page.

AFTERNOON TEA AT THE CASTLE

Newsletter: 'Friends of Franciscan College Gormanston' under College Documents

If you would like to be part of Friends of Franciscan College Gormanston or
wish to contribute in any way please email ulic@eircom.net OR
friendsofgormanston@ gormanstoncollege.ie

Friends of Franciscan College Gormanston Newsletter

Book Lists 2015-16

Book Lists for academic year 2015-16 now available under "College Documents"
section on this homepage.

Book Lists 2015-16

Photographs

Occasionally Franciscan College Gormanston use photographs of our students for
promotional and advertising purposes. If you have any objections to the school
using your son/daughter photos for this purpose please contact the school
directly on 01-8412203 or email us on adminsec@gormanstoncollege.ie. 

Photographs

New Biometric Card System

For Registration process of new Card System please refer to 'Biometric Card
System' document under College Document section of this website.  

Biometric Card System

Sports Diary

A summary of what will be taking place throughout the year in Clann and College
sport...More

Sports Diary

VISITORS

All Visitors to the College should report to reception. A "Visitor" pass will
be provided to you for the duration of your visit.

 

Visitors

SAFETY AT GORMANSTON COLLEGE

A statement regarding the Safety of Students at Gormanston College and the
unauthorised use of grounds, golf course and sports complex by the general
public can be read in full in the 'College Documents' section on this homepage.
Note: The Main Gate will be locked permanently. Please use Stamullen Gate or
Sport Complex Gate.

SAFETY AT GORMANSTON COLLEGE

SPORTS COMPLEX

 

Enquiries regarding the hiring of the Sports Complex and Football pitches
should be made directly to the Sports Complex.

Telephone: 01-8496853 / 086-7778185

Email: Conor@imacgroup.ie

 

SPORTS COMPLEX
 
... To the Glory of God and the Honour of Ireland ...
Wednesday 13.01.2016
Home
Show all

Upcoming EventsSports InformationDiary

  • 
      □ Wednesday, 13th January

        Junior Clann Debating - 2.00 pm
      □ Wednesday, 20th January

        2nd Year Parent Teacher Meeting 4.15pm - 6.45pm
      □ Wednesday, 27th January

        Senior Clann Debating - 2.00 pm
      □ Monday, 1st February

        Bullying Awareness Week (1 week)
      □ Thursday, 11th February

        1st Year Parent Teacher Meeting 4.15pm - 6.45pm
      □ Friday, 12th February

        Mid Term Break - 3.05 pm
  • 
  • 
      □ Wednesday, 6th January

        Class for all - 8.45 am
      □ Wednesday, 13th January

        Junior Clann Debating - 2.00 pm
      □ Wednesday, 20th January

        2nd Year Parent Teacher Meeting 4.15pm - 6.45pm
      □ Wednesday, 27th January

        Senior Clann Debating - 2.00 pm
      □ Monday, 1st February

        Bullying Awareness Week (1 week)
      □ Thursday, 11th February

        1st Year Parent Teacher Meeting 4.15pm - 6.45pm

Show all

College Documents

Diary 2015 - 2016

College Admission Policy 2015 - 2016

School Improvement Plan 2015 - 2016

Special Educational Needs Policy 2015 - 2016

School Self Evaluation Report 2014 - 2015

Archived

News

  • 19/08/2014
    NEW CASHLESS SYSTEM AT THE COLLEGE

    To register & top up your new smart card please CLICK HERE

Welcome to Gormanston!

[dermot_lavi]Welcome to our College website. I am sure you will find it
informative and helpful. We are very proud of... More

Show all

Clann Leaderboard

END OF WEEK RESULTS 22ND DECEMBER 2015

  • Antoine

    1193
  • Eanna

    1313
  • Froinsias

    1390
  • Padraig

    1214

 
 
(C) Gormanston College 2016, created by nestdesign

  • Guidance
  • Summer Courses
  • Curriculum
  • Sports
  • College Life
  • Clanns
  • Franciscan Community
  • Home
  • College Profile
  • Site Map

  
