[cropped-rsz_1gazlogo]

  • Home
  • e-paper
  • About Us
  • Who’s Who – Staff
  • Contact Us
  • Buy A Subscription
  • Search Gazette Archives
  • Porvoo Communion
  • Audio Interviews
  • Help

COI Gazette – 8th January 2016

Archbishop Clarke cannot see next Lambeth Conference being held in 2018 In a
wide-ranging interview with the Gazette editor shortly before Christmas, the
Archbishop of Armagh, the Most Revd Richard Clarke, spoke about the
forthcoming…

COI Gazette – 18th December 2015

C. of I.’s new Secretary-General looks forward to ‘challenging and enjoyable
role’ Last week, the Archbishop of Armagh, the Most Revd Richard Clarke,
announced the appointment of nancier David Ritchie as the new Secretary-
General…

COI Gazette – 11th December 2015

High-level WCC delegation visits Ireland A delegation of three senior staff
members of the World Council of Churches visited Belfast and Dublin last week.
The members of the delegation were Dr Clare Amos (Programme Executive…

COI Gazette – 4th December 2015

Anglicans to support reception centre for refugees on Greek island, Lesvos The
Diocese in Europe and the Anglican mission agency Us (formerly USPG) are to
give funding to an emergency centre for refugees at the…

COI Gazette – 27th November 2015

Archbishop Jackson and Bishop Miller confirm 2012 General Synod resolution not
intended to change Church’s teaching on marriage Earlier this month, the
Gazette asked the proposer and seconder of the motion that led to the…

Featured

COI Gazette – 8th January 2016

COI Gazette – 8th January 2016

Archbishop Clarke cannot see next Lambeth Conference being held in 2018 In a
wide-ranging interview with the Gazette editor shortly before Christmas,…

Read more →

COI Gazette – 18th December 2015

COI Gazette – 18th December 2015

C. of I.’s new Secretary-General looks forward to ‘challenging and…

Read more →

COI Gazette – 11th December 2015

COI Gazette – 11th December 2015

High-level WCC delegation visits Ireland A delegation of three senior…

Read more →

COI Gazette – 4th December 2015

COI Gazette – 4th December 2015

Anglicans to support reception centre for refugees on Greek island,…

Read more →

More Articles

COI Gazette – 8th January 2016

COI Gazette – 8th January 2016

Archbishop Clarke cannot see next Lambeth Conference being held in 2018 In a
wide-ranging interview with the Gazette editor shortly before Christmas, the
Archbishop of Armagh, the Most Revd Richard Clarke, spoke about the forthcoming
Primates’ Meeting, scheduled for later … Continue reading →

Read more →

COI Gazette – 18th December 2015

COI Gazette – 18th December 2015

C. of I.’s new Secretary-General looks forward to ‘challenging and enjoyable
role’ Last week, the Archbishop of Armagh, the Most Revd Richard Clarke,
announced the appointment of nancier David Ritchie as the new Secretary-
General of the Church of Ireland … Continue reading →

Read more →

COI Gazette – 11th December 2015

COI Gazette – 11th December 2015

High-level WCC delegation visits Ireland A delegation of three senior staff
members of the World Council of Churches visited Belfast and Dublin last week.
The members of the delegation were Dr Clare Amos (Programme Executive for
Interreligious Dialogue and Co-operation), … Continue reading →

Read more →

COI Gazette – 4th December 2015

COI Gazette – 4th December 2015

Anglicans to support reception centre for refugees on Greek island, Lesvos The
Diocese in Europe and the Anglican mission agency Us (formerly USPG) are to
give funding to an emergency centre for refugees at the remote Pharos
Lighthouse on the … Continue reading →

Read more →

COI Gazette – 27th November 2015

COI Gazette – 27th November 2015

Archbishop Jackson and Bishop Miller confirm 2012 General Synod resolution not
intended to change Church’s teaching on marriage Earlier this month, the
Gazette asked the proposer and seconder of the motion that led to the 2012
General Synod resolution on … Continue reading →

Read more →

COI Gazette – 20th November 2015

COI Gazette – 20th November 2015

Violence in name of religion is violence against religion, says WCC after
terror attacks Following last week’s Islamic State deadly terror attacks in
Paris and Beirut, the World Council of Churches issued a statement in which it
said: “Violence in … Continue reading →

Read more →

Loading

[small-ad]
[Access-your-online-Gazette-here]

Sign -Up for your Gazette Online!

Receive your Gazette e-paper every week for only £30 per year. Click here to
subscribe or to login to your subscription of our e-paper, or to view a sample
e-paper.

Twitter

Tweets by @CofIgazette

Archive

  • January 2016
  • December 2015
  • November 2015
  • October 2015
  • September 2015
  • August 2015
  • July 2015
  • June 2015
  • May 2015
  • April 2015
  • March 2015
  • February 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • November 2014
  • October 2014
  • September 2014
  • August 2014
  • July 2014
  • June 2014
  • May 2014
  • April 2014
  • March 2014
  • February 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • September 2013
  • August 2013
  • July 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • March 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • December 2012
  • November 2012
  • October 2012
  • September 2012
  • August 2012
  • July 2012
  • June 2012
  • May 2012
  • April 2012
  • March 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • December 2011
  • November 2011
  • October 2011
  • September 2011
  • August 2011
  • July 2011

TeamViewer for Remote Support Remote Support

  • Audio Interview
  • Contact Us

Welcome to Church Of Ireland Gazette Online

This is a welcome message

(C) 2016 Church of Ireland Gazette
Mag. Theme powered by WordPress
Press f for fullscreen.
[fulls]
spinner 
