  • Home
  • About St. James's
      □ Directions
      □ Contact Us
      □ Meet the Rector
      □ Meet the Assistant Rector
      □ Meet our Food Pantry Director
      □ Meet our Adjunct Priest
      □ Leadership
      □ Living Stones Strategic Plan 2010-2013
      □ Vestry
      □ Vestry Program Liaisons
      □ History
      □ Holy Currencies
      □ Property Redevelopment
      □ Wedding Policy
      □ Funeral Policy
      □ Our End-of-Life Planning Booklet
      □ Safe Church Policy
  • Worship
      □ Worship Times
      □ Music
      □ Readings
      □ St. James's Moment
  • Education
      □ Church School
      □ Senior High Youth Group
      □ Christan Education for Adults
      □ Education for Ministry
  • Holly's Sabbatical
  • Resources
  • Outreach
      □ GBIO
      □ Prison Ministry
      □ Helping Hand Food Pantry
      □ Outdoor Church
      □ Missions Committee
      □ Ruth and Jim Padilla DeBorst
      □ On the Ground in Burundi
      □ Diocesan Partners
      □ TATUA
  • Scouts @ St. James's
  • News
      □ The Sunday News
      □ Annual Report
      □ Mailing List
  • Capital Campaign
  • Calendar
  • Redevelopment at St. James's
  • Growing Up in North Cambridge


St. James's Episcopal Church

  • Home
  • About St. James's
      □ Directions
      □ Contact Us
      □ Meet the Rector
      □ Meet the Assistant Rector
      □ Meet our Food Pantry Director
      □ Meet our Adjunct Priest
      □ Leadership
      □ Living Stones Strategic Plan 2010-2013
      □ Vestry
      □ Vestry Program Liaisons
      □ History
      □ Holy Currencies
      □ Property Redevelopment
      □ Wedding Policy
      □ Funeral Policy
      □ Our End-of-Life Planning Booklet
      □ Safe Church Policy
  • Worship
      □ Worship Times
      □ Music
      □ Readings
      □ St. James's Moment
  • Education
      □ Church School
      □ Senior High Youth Group
      □ Christan Education for Adults
      □ Education for Ministry
  • Holly's Sabbatical
  • Resources
  • Outreach
      □ GBIO
      □ Prison Ministry
      □ Helping Hand Food Pantry
      □ Outdoor Church
      □ Missions Committee
      □ Ruth and Jim Padilla DeBorst
      □ On the Ground in Burundi
      □ Diocesan Partners
      □ TATUA
  • Scouts @ St. James's
  • News
      □ The Sunday News
      □ Annual Report
      □ Mailing List
  • Capital Campaign
  • Calendar
  • Redevelopment at St. James's
  • Growing Up in North Cambridge


Top Navigation Bar

  • Home
  • About St. James's
      □ Directions
      □ Contact Us
      □ Meet the Rector
      □ Meet the Assistant Rector
      □ Meet our Food Pantry Director
      □ Meet our Adjunct Priest
      □ Leadership
      □ Living Stones Strategic Plan 2010-2013
      □ Vestry
      □ Vestry Program Liaisons
      □ History
      □ Holy Currencies
      □ Property Redevelopment
      □ Wedding Policy
      □ Funeral Policy
      □ Our End-of-Life Planning Booklet
      □ Safe Church Policy
  • Worship
      □ Worship Times
      □ Music
      □ Readings
      □ St. James's Moment
  • Education
      □ Church School
      □ Senior High Youth Group
      □ Christan Education for Adults
      □ Education for Ministry
  • Holly's Sabbatical
  • Resources
  • Outreach
      □ GBIO
      □ Prison Ministry
      □ Helping Hand Food Pantry
      □ Outdoor Church
      □ Missions Committee
      □ Ruth and Jim Padilla DeBorst
      □ On the Ground in Burundi
      □ Diocesan Partners
      □ TATUA
  • Scouts @ St. James's
  • News
      □ The Sunday News
      □ Annual Report
      □ Mailing List
  • Capital Campaign
  • Calendar
  • Redevelopment at St. James's
  • Growing Up in North Cambridge

Resources

  • Eric Litman's Sermon for 1 Epiphany 1-10-16
  • Holly Lyman Antolini's Sermon for Eric Litman's Ordination 1-10-15
  • Eric Litman's Sermon for 1 Christmas 12-27-15
  • Eric Litman's Sermon for the Feast of the Incarnation 12-25-15
  • Holly Lyman Antolini's Sermon for the Feast of the Nativity 12-24-15

  • Helpful Links
      □ Submit your pledge here!
      □ Sunday News
      □ SUBSCRIBE to the Sunday News

PayPal - The safer, easier way to pay online! *
[sjhomepage]

Welcome to St. James's Episcopal Church in Cambridge, MA, a community known for
its diversity, enthusiasm and joy in the Gospel. 

Holy Eucharist Rite I, Sunday 8:00am in the side chapel; Holy Eucharist Rite II
 with music, Sunday 10:30am (Nursery for toddlers available in the Vestry); 
Church School begins at 10:15 for children ages 4-10 at Pine Village Preschool
(2067 Mass. Ave.) & for children 11-18 at 2161 Mass. Ave.

Put Leaves on the St. James's Tree & Sap in Its Trunk!

[Currency]

Moving forward towards construction!

If you would like an update on construction plans, go to the Saint James Place
construction website at http://saintjamescambridge.com/.

Meanwhile, enjoy our FAQ sheet on the restoration plans below! 

 

[FAQ]

See the history of St. James's church and garden, and our exciting
redevelopment plans in detail in the PowerPoint presentation below:

This is an embedded Microsoft Office PDF, powered by Office Online.

New Hours & Location for Helping Hand Food Pantry!
St. James's Helping Hand Food Pantry is moving to a new room at 364 Fresh Pond
Apartments from its previous one at 362, as the old room is becoming a large
community room. Our new room shares premises with after-school and cooking
programs, so our new hours will be:
Tuesday 12:30-2:30pm: Open to all  
Thursday 11am-1pm: Open to all 
Saturday 10am-12pm: Residents of Cambridge, Somerville and Arlington Only  


The Holy Currencies:

6 Blessings that Sustain Missional Ministries at St. James's

[HC]

At St. James's, we’re talking about ALL the “Holy Currencies” and how they
increase and support each other and in turn, support us to pursue God’s Mission
in a sustainable way at St. James’s. So what are "The Holy Currencies?"  We
know about the Currency of Money.  But as any "endowed parish" knows, money
alone doesn't sustain a vibrant ministry, nor keep it focused on God's Mission
of justice and mercy, advocacy and reconciliation in a world that, despite its
inherent beauty and abundant creative energy, is divided, unjust and broken.
For that, we need other "currencies" less quantifiable but no less critical,
and those currencies need to flow one into another, multiplying each other
endlessly to energize God's Mission.  The need for a flowing Currency of Time &
Place is one we know poignantly well, as we await the building of our new
parish house, since we have had to find currency of place by the grace of our
neighbors, the Pine Village Preschool for our church school, the Friends for
our offices and Women's Meal, the Fresh Pond Apartments for our Food Pantry,
and as we find our schedules impacted and our anxiety rising at our over
commitment, finding currency of time hard to dispense in the flood tide of
priorities in our lives. Time & Place depend upon and flow from another
Currency, the Currency of Relationship.  It is the desire for relationship that
motivates parishioners to offer their houses for a Newcomers' Meal or a Lenten
Class.  It is the fruit of relationship that enables us to expand our
"footprint" from the Food Pantry to the "Cooking Nights" at Fresh Pond so our
guests at the Food Pantry become our friends.  And it's the fruit of
relationship that supports the vibrancy of our parish life “in diaspora,”
relying on the kindness of our neighbors as we wait to build our parish house.
Currency of Relationship flows directly from the Currency of Truth, in which
everyone in a congregation feels heard, can express their views without rancor,
and stretches to listen carefully and hear the views of people very different
from themselves, and in which we become able to hear and be moved to action by
"the cries of the poor" in our surrounding community.  The prison ministry, the
Anti-Oppression Team, and the Outdoor Church are all places where the currency
of Truth flourishes at St. James's. And it's Currency of Gracious Leadership
 that keeps that space open and inviting for both Relationship and Truth to
expand and deepen in worship, formation, and outreach ministry.  All these
Currencies - Money, Time & Place, Relationship, Gracious Leadership, and Truth
- flow together to enhance our fundamental Currency of Wellness, that
rootedness in God's goodness, love and abundance that grounds itself in worship
and reminds us that we are each of us beloved of God and gifted to increase
God's love in the needy world. 

St. James's Activities:

[St]

St James's Episcopal Church - 1991 Massachusetts Ave, Cambridge MA 02140

Offices located at 2161 Massachusetts Avenue at Milton Street

[2161]

New Parking for St. James's during construction!

When we begin construction, we will be using the parking lot behind the
Henderson Carriage House on Mass Ave. To get there, you go west on Mass Ave,
pass the Hess Station on your right, and immediately after the Hess station,
turn right on Hadley Street. Then turn left into the parking lot.

Weekday evenings after 6 pm, Saturday and Sundays only.

Upcoming Events

 

Copyright (C) 2009, St. James's Episcopal Church. Powered by Squarespace | Log
In | Feedback
