Singers.com

In Celebration of the Human Voice - The Essential Musical Instrument

Home | Doo Wop | Barbershop | World | Contemporary | Christian | Vocal Jazz |
Choral | Christmas | Instructional | Arrangements

Acappella Company

                               Acappella Company

During its 25 years of existence, Acappella has quietly gone about building a
reputation of unparalleled excellence as the premier all-vocal group of the
Christian music industry. CCM Update perhaps defined them best as
"four-charming, thoughtful artists - these four talented gents are 'the
franchise'." Part of this success is due to their compelling on-stage presence
in well over 100 concerts a year. They have encountered sell-out crowds all
over the United States, Canada, Brazil, Europe, Australia, South Africa, China,
Jamaica, as well as the French West Indies.

Millions of people worldwide have been exposed to the unique music of Acappella
through national television appearances, and by hearing them as the "voice" of
Sony Camcorder commercials. Most Acappella fans, however, know them from albums
that have won them the reputation for "superb quality". These albums include We
Have Seen His Glory, Rescue, and Acappella Hymns For all the World which
Release Magazine praised for "flawless vocals". The publication added further
that "this foursome has vocal harmonies down to a science - no, make that an
art."

The Acappella Company began as a dream in the mind of young Keith Lancaster.
With an exceptional vocal range, and a unique ability to compose memorable
songs, Keith recorded his first album, singing all the parts a cappella, at an
early age. Now, as the founder of The Acappella Company, Keith heads up
producing the unique and diverse a cappella projects, using the finest
all-vocals techniques, technology, and voices available. While still heavily
involved with leadership in The Acappella Company, Keith also works as a
Worship Minister in the Nashville area. You can find him every weekend before
more than 3000 people at the Madison Church Of Christ. He is also director of a
small singing group at David Lipscomb University.

Discography

Displaying 1-36 of 36 items.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[classics200]

Acappella Company : Classics

Review: Our first Classics album released in the early 90's. This album stands
out as a collection of "best of Contemporary Christian". When we decided to do
this album, these were the first 10 songs we thought of. Songs from artists
like the late Rich Mullins, Michael W. Smith, the Imperials, Amy Grant, Petra,
and the Gaither Trio. It's hard to beat songs like these.

Songlist: Awesome God, Thy Word, We Are His Hands, Because He Lives, Father's
Eyes, Coloring Song, El -Shaddai, Friends, Soon and Very Soon, We Will Stand

\'More
5898c | 00 1 CD | $9.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cart
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[classics2200]

Acappella Company : Classics Vol 2

Review: These are the new classics. Songs by Wayne Watson, Petra, Sandi Patty,
Ray Boltz, and others. All done in the a cappella style you've come to expect.
An excellent album with arrangements that are true to the originals.

Songlist: Looking Out For #1, O Happy Day, Via Dolorosa, Thank You, Lift Him
Up, When God Ran, All Rise, Do Right, How Could You Say No?, In The Name Of The
Lord

\'More
5899c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cart
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[communion200]

Acappella Company : Communion

Review: These songs center around the act of communion. The central theme being
the sacrifice of Jesus, this album draws you closer to meditating on Him. These
are songs you know. Songs you've sung all your life, like Were You There, Jesus
Paid It All, At The Cross, and Kum Ba Ya.

Songlist: Let Us Break Bread Together, I Gave My Life For Thee, There Is A
Fountain, According To Thy Gracious Word, My Jesus I Love Thee, At The Cross,
Jesus Paid It All, Nothing But The Blood, Were You There?, Kum Ba Ya

\'More
5903c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cart
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[exalthim200]

Acappella Company : Exalt Him

Review: Keith Lancaster's Acappella Company of brings us another finely crafted
collection of 16 original songs by Acappella Praise & Worship. Keith has
produced the album, with Gary Miller, who also wrote, or co-wrote, and composed
a number of lovely songs: "We Will Sing," "Beautiful Lamb," "Lord We Love You,"
"Plenty Good News," "Lord" and "Holy Lord." Keith Lancaster wrote and composed
"Hear the Voice of The Lord," "Covenant of Love," "O Lord, Deliver Me,"
"Walking in the Light," "I Am Unworthy," "One Thing I Ask" and "Lift Up My
Soul." Gary Moyers has also written and composed "And So I Bow" and "O Magnify
The Lord;" and the title tune was written and composed by Jon Mark Hurley. All
of these Contemporary Christian songs are inspirational, feel-good songs of
faith that lend themselves to singing along with the vocalists. All the lyrics
are thoughtfully included in the liner notes. A beautiful collection from the
good folks in Paris, Tennessee!

Songlist: We Will Sing, Exalt Him, Hear the Voice of the Lord, Beautiful Lamb,
Lord We Love You, And So I Bow, Covenant of Love, O Lord, Deliver Me, Plenty
Good News, Walking in the Light, Lord, I Am Unworthy, Holy Lord, One Thing I
Ask, Lift Up My Soul, O Magnify the Lord

\'More
5902c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[acapmelodies200]

Acappella Company : Melodies

Review: What do you get when you take hymns that everyone loves, do it a
cappella, but use no words? Acappella Melodies. This is a wonderfully relaxing
album, perfect for prayer time and meditation. You'll hear the songs you've
sung all your life, done in thoughtful arrangements designed to relax. Nothing
but melodies.

Songlist: We Gather Together, Hallelujah, What A Savior, Doxology/Christ, We Do
All Adore Thee, A Wonderful Savior, Theme of Love, I Surrender All, Sweet Hour
of Prayer, Fairest Lord Jesus, This Is My Father's World, Angel's Longing

\'More
5897c | 00 1 CD | $10.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cart
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[onlygod200]

Acappella Company : Only God

Review: Recorded in June of 2009 at Lipscomb University, Only God features
nearly 200 voices, singing God's praises in a congregational setting. As an
added bonus, there is a vocalist training CD included to help you learn your
part (soprano, alto, tenor, or bass) on each of these great songs. You can use
Only God as a teaching tool to help your congregation or singing group learn
this collection of 25 new songs

Songlist: Agnus Dei, Hosanna, Lord I Lift Your Name On High, We Will Worship
the Lamb of Glory, Blessed Be the Name of the Lord, Blessed be Your Name, In
the Name of the Lord, Worthy is the Lamb, O How He Loves You and Me, Surround
Us O Lord, Glorify Thy Name, More, You Are the One for Me, You're the One, In
Christ Alone, A New Annointing, If You Miss Me, Refiner's Fire, Restore My
Soul, Shield About Me, He Will Come and Save You, Ancient Words, Christ Above
Me, Now to Him, Take the Lord With You

\'More
5705c | 00 2 CDs | $15.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[findyourway200]

Listen to
All Over The World
Acappella Company : Find Your Way

Review: Keith Lancaster's prolific, Tennessee-based Acapella Company presents
this Contemporary quintet, featuring Allen Brantley, Keith's son Anthony
Lancaster, Robin Brannon, Zac George and Zachary Wilson. All 11 songs here are
written and composed by Keith, "Calling Forth," "Let Me Tell You," "Something
To Hold On To," the inspiring round "All Over The World," "Fill Us," "Joined
Together," "Almighty God," "Find Your Way," "Going Down To The River," "For
Your Deliverance" and "May The Presence Of The Lord." Keith Lancaster has also
produced the album. The wonderful deep-bassed harmonies and inspiring lyrics
will surely help you "Find Your Way," through the soulful ministry of the
Acapella Company!

Songlist: Calling Forth, Let Me Tell You, Something To Hold On To, All Over The
World, Fill Us, Joined Together, Almighty God, Find Your Way, Going Down to the
River, Find Your Deliverance, May the Presence of the Lord

\'More
9216c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[ACapCarolsSeries200]

Listen to
Away In A Manger
Acappella Company : A Cappella Carols

Review: The jubilant voices of the Acappella Company are amazingly prolific,
having recorded dozens of albums through the years. Their inspirational themes
are blended in a contemporary-meets-gospel style. 'Carols' was released in
1993, and features the group performing all of the best-loved holiday gems: 'O
Holy Night, The First Noel,' 'Joy To The World' and 'Silent Night,' plus six
more. While the production and arrangements are certainly not plain, by
comparison to their original compositions, they are restrained. 'Silent Night'
retains the simplicity of this ubiquitous melody, but improvises upon it,
adding warmth and depth with a resonant bass and perfectly-timed harmonic
backing. You can't go wrong with this one!

Songlist: Angels We Have Heard On High, O Holy Night, Hark The Herald Angels
Sing, Away In A Manger, The First Noel, O Come All Ye Faithful, What Child Is
This, Joy To The World, Little Town of Bethlehem, Silent Night

\'More
2202c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartGospel Christmas
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaEnEspanol200]

Acappella Company : A Cappella en Espanol

Review: Ten of Acappella's best songs - in Spanish! Some friends from Mexico
City came and tutored Acappella as they retracked some of their more popular
songs. The result? An excellent Acappella release in, what we are told,
excellent Spanish.

Songlist: Es Muy Bueno Estar Reunidos, Jamas Hables, Dulce Amistad, Mejor Que
la Vida, Todo Mundo Dijo, La Cancion, A Aquel Que en el Trono Esta, Veniste a
Salvarme, Mi Senor y Mi Dios, Camino con El

\'More
3001c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaAmerica200]

Acappella Company : Acappella America

Review: This was the very first series album produced by the Acappella
Company... and still one of the best. It's all the classic patriotic songs done
Acappella style. It's an excellent album, and one of the most popular.

Songlist: America, Battle Hymn of the Republic, God of Our Fathers, God Bless
America, Eternal Father, The Star Spangled Banner, America Medley, My Country
'Tis of Thee, Lift Every Voice, He's Got the Whole World In His Hands, God
Bless the USA

\'More
3004c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartPatriotic A Cappella
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaTheCollection2]

Acappella Company : Acappella Collection

Review: One of the premier groups in Christian/gospel a cappella, 'Acapella'
has released over three dozen albums, and counting. This CD is a long-awaited
'best-of' collection, and an exemplary introduction to their musical message.
This gifted amalgamation demonstrates a truly astonishing facility within a
number of different songwriting styles: 'Get To The Point' has a hook that
would be a hit on pop radio, 'God is Standing By' has a Caribbean flavor. The
production of 'It Was the Truth' shows how a simple vocal effect can
distinguish a song. 'Sing His Praises' again is a textbook example of
production and arranging wizardry: the syncopated 'keyboard' octaves, the
placement of the various voices (panning), and the sixteenth-note bass line
create atmosphere, a tension and release. You will love this record.

Songlist: Teaching The Truth In Love, Only Truth, Special Delivery, Rescue,
Hush, Get To The Point, Softly And Tenderly, If There Were No God, My Lord And
My God, Good Livin', Everybody Said (But Nobody Did), I'm At Your Mercy, Let
There Be Love, Not My Will But Thine, Walkin' That Line, Well On My Way, The
Medley: He Gave Her Water / Lead Me to Rest / We Have Seen His Glory / I Have a
Friend / Criminal on the Cross / Let's Get Together,

\'More
5319c | 00 1 CD | $13.95  Add to shopping cartContemporary Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaActGod200]

Acappella Company : Act Of God

Review: Here we have a 1997 release by the most prolific musical ministry ever.
Half of the songs are written by that endless font of musical inspiration,
Keith Lancaster. Duane Adams who sang with the quartet is still writing and has
a couple of compositions in addition to collaborating with Keith on the slow,
profound and satisfying title track, 'Act Of God.' The other members of the
current band have made significant writing and arranging contributions. They
are Gary Moyers, Gary Miller, Kevin Schaffer and Steve Reischl. The production
is over the top! Multi-tracking and some signal processing yields a complex
texture to all the songs whose tempo is definitely rock and the fullness of a
large choral group to the slower songs. We believe that our secular a cappella
fans should try this recording because, musically, it is a amazing piece of
work.

Songlist: He's Gonna Let You Know, Get To The Point, Act of God, House Of
Praise, And They Praised God, Gotta Grow Up , Let There Be Love, Teaching The
Truth In Love, Let's Show And Tell, Walking That Line

\'More
3229c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaAllINeed200]

Acappella Company : All That I Need

Review: The long-running success story that is the Acappella Company is based
upon immaculate production, strong original songwriting, and an unwavering
faith in the Creator. Produced by visionary Keith Lancaster, who wrote a
portion of the material (the rest written by the group themselves), the four
men of Acappella intrigue the ear with harmonies that can be reminiscent of
Crosby, Stills and Nash, or classic three-part triad. The uptempo 'Ready To Go'
is stirring and jubilant, while 'Begins' has a descending progression and
timely modulation that is irresistibly catchy. The percolating bass, insistent
refrain, and recitation vocal of the title track, 'All That I Need,' drives the
message home. Sonically, the mix is richly articulated and defined, without an
excess of gloss.

Songlist: Love Is The Power, Movin', Standing Right In Front of You, I Know You
Know, Jesus Knows, Abba Father, Ready To Go, Begins, All That I Need, Jesus Is
Coming, O Wretched Man, Praise Be To The Lord

\'More
2203c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaBeyondDoubt200]

Acappella Company : Beyond A Doubt

Review: It's hard to believe! Huh? What? It's hard to believe that the snare
and drum on 'Do Not Be Afraid' are vocal. But it's sampling! Sampling
shmampling. To be unable to dispel the illusion of instruments, even under
headphones, is something special! We're talkin' audio trompe l'oeil here folks.
By the way, who is singing bass? That's one of the deepest purist bass lines
we've ever heard. Beyond a doubt the more things change with Acappella, the
more they stay the same - terrific! There are songs which have arrangements so
simple that the fine harmony of four voices, without any studio trickery, carry
the message and you don't get distracted by the music. There is an addition of
jazz chording that expands the possibilities of the group in exciting
directions. Acappella just keeps getting better!

Songlist: Tell Me Something I Don't Know, And My God Will Meet All Your Needs,
I Can Rejoice, If There Were No God, Do Not Be Afraid, When You're There, God
Inhabits Our Praise, I'm At Your Mercy, He Did It Again, Brave New World

\'More
3219c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaChristmas200]

Acappella Company : Christmas

Review: Contemporary Christian group Acappella's Christmas CD features many
original compositions with the sophisticated production for which the group is
known, along with several traditionals, such as 'Go Tell It On The Mountain.'
The consonant and stirring harmonies are intricately woven, and the group
favors effects processing on some of the vocal tracks, giving them a modern
edge. Even when singing about the birth of Christ thousands of years ago, the
songs can be energetic and uptempo, such as 'Merry Christmas,' with it's
swinging walking bass, and vocal slides. 'The Reason For The Season' meanders
through a doo wop feel into a 6/8 meter, while 'That's What I Love About
Christmas' is a whimsical jazz-influenced number, with vocal trumpet and
trombone solos. The group adds occasional percussion or keyboard to ornament
certain tracks, but Acappella's vocal arrangements, and the quality of the
performances, are already as filled with bounty as Santa's sleigh!

Songlist: There Were Angels, A Tiny Child, Go Tell It On The Mountain, Joseph's
Song, That's What I Love About Christmas, No Other Day, Christmas Medley, Now
You're Here, Merry Christmas, The Reason For The Season

\'More
3221c | 00 1 CD | $9.95  Add to shopping cartGospel Christmas
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaFamXmas200]

Acappella Company : Family Christmas

Review: The Acappella Company, a male inspirational quartet, has the knack of
writing clever arrangements without sacrificing emotional intensity, and their
intelligent production lends a modern edge and sheen. Some cuts have percussion
tracks, which arenUt employed as a live trap kit would be, but add groove and
fullness. 'Family Christmas' includes twenty-one holiday carols and hymns, some
of which were included previously on their two former Christmas CDUs (also in
stock), and four from their childrenUs recording. Some of the older tracks have
been refreshed and re-mixed with new vocals for this release, and 'Mary Did You
Know,' 'O Holy Night' 'Away In A Manger' and 'Little Drummer Boy' are brand
new.

Songlist: Mary Did You Know , Away In a Manger, A Tiny Child, The First Noel,
Noel, Silent Night, Joy to the World, There Were Angels, O Come, O Come
Emanuel, Christmas Medley, No Other Day, Here We Come A Carolling Medley,
That's What I Love About Christmas, Hark the Herald Angels Sing, Angels We Have
Heard On High, Jesus Carol, Merry Christmas, What Child Is This, Is Born a
Savior, O Holy Night, Little Drummer Boy

\'More
2201c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartGospel Christmas
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaGold200]

Acappella Company : Gold

Review: Acappella Gold is a collection of some of the best songs from two
earlier albums, Conquerors and Better Than Life. This is the old sound that
Acappella became famous for under Keith Lancaster and Rodney Britt. You can't
ask for more classic than this!

Songlist: A Cappella, Better Than Life, Everybody Praise, He Gave Her Water, We
Bow Down, John The Revelator, More Than A Friend, Do You Love The Lord, When I
Say Farewell, Rock-A-My Soul, The Time Has Come, Let's Get Together

\'More
3003c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaGospel200]

Acappella Company : Gospel Long play

Review: Another two-for-one re-release featuring 18 songs. The Acappella
Company has created a dynasty, and their recordings are always exceptionally
well produced and arranged. When they interpret a gospel tune or spiritual,
however, they absolutely shine. The versatility of the stylistic embellishments
that they routinely employ is amazing, and it's these nuances - a bar of
rhythmic counterpoint here, a half step swoop into a repeating phrase there -
that bring such lasting satisfaction. 'Old Time Gospel' is exactly that, while
'Stamp of Approval' is lifted straight from the Philly school of '70's soul;
'There Is No Excuse' is an midtempo raver that is part O'Jays and a little bit
urban too. Lots of goodies here.

Songlist: Inspiration, Old Time Gospel, Stamp of Approval, Jesus in the U.S.A.,
Hold On, Giving Me Joy, I Know Love, We Are One, There Is No Excuse, Two
Hearts, Soul Doctor, His Grace Is True, Let Me Show You Me, No More Wasted
Years, Go Out Quickly, Education, Old Time Gospel, Right Way

\'More
2214c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaHeaven200]

Listen to
War with Myself
Acappella Company : Heaven and Earth

Review: The ministry of Paris, Tennessee's The Acappella Company and Keith
Lancaster continues beautifully with the Lancaster-produced "Heaven and Earth"
by the four young men who call themselves Acappella. Lancaster's writing
talents are everywhere on this CD, "War With Myself," "Emergency," "You Are
There," "Glory and Honor," "Gone Away" and "Take Me There" feature words and
music by himself or with the group. The group's Gary Evans wrote "Y.R.A.G.
Radio Segue," "Dime Rhyme Segue" was written by Matt Nunnally, and Nicolas
Dunbar shared writing credits on "War With Myself" and "Take Me There." 12
strong cuts, notable for their contemporary sound and feel, with flavors of
hip-hop, jazz, r&b and other genres, with steady, understated guest beatbox by
Tony Brown. But the message of Christian faith and belief shines strongly
throughout, riding the natural vocal talents and deep feeling of these
extraordinary young men. One of the best Contemporary Christian CDs we've ever
heard!

Songlist: War with Myself, Dust in the Wind, Dime Rhyme Segue, One Ragged
Angel, They are the Roses, Emergency, You are There, Glory and Honor, Y.R.A.G
Radio Segue, Gone Away, Take Me There, Give Me Jesus

\'More
2866c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaHymns200]

Acappella Company : Hymns for All The Ages

Review: One of the most prolific and successful ministries, on every level, is
that of the Contemporary Christian group Acappella, produced by visionary
songwriter and arranger Keith Lancaster. Every one of their many CDs, going
back to the 1980s, features immaculate production and excellence in vocals,
songwriting and arranging, driven by a deep faith in God and their ministry.
'Hymns' is no exception, and features 12 hymns written back as early as 1815
(the words to all are included in the nicely-done liner notes), arranged by
Lancaster and members of the group. Dated and dry? Hardly-just listen to the
driving contemporary rhythms in the arrangements of 'Great Is Thy Faithfulness'
and 'Burdens Are Lifted At Calvary.' Beautiful harmonies and timeless words add
up to another winner for Acappella!

Songlist: Great Is Thy Faithfulness, Burdens Are Lifted At Calvary, The Great
Physician, Pass Me Not, Sweet Hour Of Prayer, Victory In Jesus, In The Cross,
We Praise Thee O Lord, There Is A Habitation, In The Sweet By And By, Where He
Leads Me I Will Follow, There's Not A Friend Like The Lowly Jesus

\'More
5332c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[HymnsforAllWorld200]

Acappella Company : Hymns For All The World

Review: We have come to expect certain things from 4-man Acappella, one of the
most talented and prolific Gospel groups. First, that producer Keith Lancaster
would pen and arrange at least half the songs, and second, that the deeply felt
leads and harmonies would be perfect. "Hymns" surprises in that it's a cover
CD, with only arrangements from Mr. Lancaster. That said, the arrangements are
incredible! 10 songs" "All Hail The Power," "When I Survey/Old Rugged Cross,"
"Softly and Tenderly," the driving, rhythmic "Rock of Ages," "Holy, Holy,
Holy," a jazzy, joyous "In The Garden," "Just As I Am," the stunning "Amazing
Grace," a reggae-flavored "Blessed Assurance" and a personal favorite, " It Is
Well." It is as if we are hearing these beautiful songs for the first time.
Another triumph for Acappella!

Songlist: All Hail the Power, When I Survey/ Old Rugged Cross, Softly and
Tenderly, Rock of Ages, Holy, Holy, Holy, In the Garden, Just As I Am, Amazing
Grace, Blessed Assurance, It Is Well

\'More
2848c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[2814c200]

Acappella Company : In God We Trust

Review: Tennessee-based The Acappella Company is a prolific mixed Contemporary
Christian chorus, and "In His Presence" is part of their 3-part "Praise and
Worship" series. The size of the group their names or a photo are conspicuously
absent from the liner notes, which only have the lyrics to all this original
music, written mostly by Keith Lancaster, John K. Green and Gary Miller. We
feel that this is purposely done, placing the focus on the music and the
message and taking it away from the singers-and we find this authentic and
refreshing. That description also applies to the music, all joyous a cappella.
16 feel-good songs, from "God Has Smiled On Me," "Let Us Worship" and "He Will
Be Raised Up," to "The Lord Reigns Forever," the title tune and "Jesus Will Fix
It." The A Cappella Company has always been one of our favorites, and we
especially like this series! Recommended.

Songlist: God Has Smiled On Me, Hide Me Away, O Lord, Don't Be Afraid, Guide
Us, He Gives The Victory To All, Let Us Worship, He Will Be Raised Up, The Lord
Reigns Forever, In God We Trust , I've Got The Joy Of The Lord, With All My
Heart , Worthy Lord, You Are There, Let Us Approach The Throne, In His
Strength, Jesus Will Fix It

\'More
2814c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[2812C200]

Acappella Company : In His Presence

Review: The Acappella Company brings us another Contemporary Christian winner
from the 3-part "Praise and Worship" series from Tennessee. Again, the names,
pictures and indeed any personal information about the mixed-voice chorus are
omitted from the liner notes, placing the focus squarely on the music and the
message. The purpose of the CD being to glorify Jesus, not the egos of the
singers, we respect this and find it commendable. The songs are largely
originals written by Keith Lancaster, Gary Miller and John K. Green.16 upbeat,
positive songs, from "Give Thanks," "Shout of Praise" and "More" to "Open My
Heart," "Lord, I Want to Be a Servant," the title tune and "I'm Free." There's
not really a weak cut here, and the feeling and spirit carry throughout.
Recommended!

Songlist: Give Thanks, Spiritual Touch, Shout Of Praise, How Lovely Is Your
Dwelling Place, There Is No Other Name, More, Lord We Worship Your Name, We
Have Seen His Glory , Open My Heart, Lord, I Want To Be A Servant, In Your
Presence, Now To Him, Better Than Life, To Him Who Sits On The Throne, You Are
The God, I'm Free

\'More
2812c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaParis200]

Acappella Company : Live From Paris

Review: A Cappella: Live from Paris. Paris, Tennessee, that is -- home of
Acappella Ministries! This dynamic quartet, Gary Evans (he of the
foundation-shaking bass), Kevin Schaffer, Steve Maxwell and Barry Wilson, are
in their element here. A wildly-cheering and clapping, fingers-to-the-sky
audience sings along and urges their boys on. And Acappella gives it all right
back: Gospel ("I Feel Good," "Roll Jordan, Roll," "Holy City," "This Little
Light of Mine" and "Amazing Grace"), Reggae ("Everybody Said," and "Shut De
Do,"), Doo-Wop ("Love Is The Power," "Victory In Jesus," "Hush," and the
finger-snapping "Jesus Knows"), Contemporary Christian ("Sweet Fellowship" and
"Peace Be Still"), and even a jazzy faux-instrument a cappella gem called
"Instrupella." It's all feel-good, Jesus-loving music, and you don't need to
bring your French-English dictionary!

Songlist: I Feel Good, Roll Jordon Roll, Sweet Fellowship, Holy City, Everybody
Said, This Little Light, Love is the Power, Instrupella, Victory in Jesus,
Hush, Peace Be Still, Jesus Knows, Shut De Do, Amazing Grace

\'More
5354c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaPlatinum200]

Acappella Company : Platinum

Review: "Platinum" is the latest gem from the most prolific 4-man musical
ministry ever. Blending their inspirational themes in a
contemporary-meets-gospel style, the joyous voices of Acappella have recorded
dozens of wonderful albums through the years, all featuring immaculate
production, strong original songwriting, and a powerful. Characteristically, 10
of the 12 songs are written by producer Keith Lancaster: "Don't Be Talkin'
'Bout Friends," "I Can Walk," "Now To Him," "Piper Song" ( about Keith's
daughter ), "La Song," a strong arrangement of "He Leadeth Me," "Growin' Up In
The Lord," "Water From The Well," "Share What We've Got" and "Livin' Inside."
The excellent songwriting is rivaled only by the spirited leads and soaring
harmonies. Inspiring and absolutely beautiful!

Songlist: Don't Be Talkin Bout Friends, I Can Walk, Now To Him, Piper Song, La
Song, Humble Thyself, He Leadeth Me, Growin' Up in the Lord, Water from the
Well, Share What We've Got, Livin' Inside, Peace Be Still

\'More
2842c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaRadiance200]

Listen to
Radiance Of God's Glory
Acappella Company : Radiance

Review: Twenty four years have passed since Tennessee-based Acappella Company
first began their quiet ministry together, the dream of a young Keith
Lancaster. For years an all-male quartet and now a sextet, Acappella has
recorded over 26 excellent CDs and established its reputation as the premier
all-vocal group of the Christian music industry. Lancaster again is producer of
the album, and we are treated to several more Lancaster originals, "fullness of
God," "all men will know," "to whom shall we go," "radiance of God's glory,"
"be devoted," the wonderful "Lord save me," "no one ever," and the powerful
final cut, "a prayer of david." Ten songs in total, all a cappella. Although
there are some cool pix of the group hanging out in some sort of greasy spoon
in the liner notes, the Acappella Company isn't about glorifying themselves, as
even the singers' names are only mentioned once, in small print-the focus is on
Jesus and their ministry. Their slogan is, "hear it in our voice," and we can,
and so can the millions of people who have seen this great vocal group perform
and/or bought a CD. We loved every cut of "Radiance," Contemporary Christian a
cappella at its very finest!

Songlist: Fullness Of God, All Men Will Know, To Whom Shall We Go, Sanctify My
Heart, Radiance Of God's Glory, Sanctify My Heart, Be Devoted, Temptations Of
Christ, Lord Save Me, No One Ever, A Prayer Of David

\'More
3061c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaRescue200]

Acappella Company : Rescue

Review: No one song more captures the essence of Acappella than Rescue. It is
by far the most requested song in concert and tops the group's "most favorite
list" as submitted by their fans. If you want to hear where the quartet really
started cooking, Rescue is the album for you.

Songlist: Listen to Him, Rescue, John 10 (Introduction to Life), Life, Who Is
Gonna Tell the Child?, Everybody Said (But Nobody Did), It Is Good For Us to Be
Here, That Could Have Been Me, Take It Away, That They May All Be One, I Have a
Friend

\'More
3212c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaSetMeFree200]

Acappella Company : Set Me Free

Review: It seems important to this reviewer to follow the contributions of
different singers to the legacy of outstanding a cappella music which has
eventuated from Keith Lancaster. This recording was released in 1993 and
features the voices of Duane Adams, Wayburn Dean, George Pendegrass and Gary
Moyers (who is now president of the Ministries). All but two of these
inspirational songs were written by Keith who also produced the album. It's a
strong, rich, full recording with overdubbing aplenty to create textures which
vary from rock ('Only Truth') through R&B ('Lead Me To Rest') into the jazz
chord opening of 'Special Kind Of Love' and on through the light reggae sound
and rhythm of 'Long Way To Go.' Rhythms and rhymes alike all point the listener
toward the Lord. It's a wonderful ministry of song.

Songlist: Only Truth, Set Me Free, More Precious Than Gold, Not My Will But
Thine, My Lord And My God, Lead Me To Rest, Nobody But Jesus, Special Kind Of
Love, Long Way To Go, Hush, Stand On The Rock, Everything We Need

\'More
3215c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaSwFellow200]

Acappella Company : Sweet Fellowship

Review: 'Fellowshipping with one another as we're walking in the light' is the
opening couplet of the title track and spiritual message of this 1988
recording. The beginning of the album sounds exactly like the 'sound' we've
come to expect from Keith Lancaster who wrote all the songs but the three
traditional tunes. Sweet harmonies on top of an upbeat rhythm create an
enjoyable contemporary spiritual sound that is nicely juxtaposed with the
traditional gospel tunes, 'For The Lost' and 'View That Holy City.' Just when
we're getting complacent, a driving sampled rhythm provides a feel of the most
contemporary rock a cappella. That's 'Well On My Way.' What a production! The
voices of Rodney Britt, Wayburn Dean, Gary Moyers and George Pendergrass
integrate so well it seems impossible to imagine any other lineup even when we
know change did come.

Songlist: Sweet Fellowship, Criminal On The Cross, For The Lost, View That Holy
City, Well On My Way, His Righteousness, I Feel Good, To Win As Many As
Possible, Answer My Prayer, To Be With You

\'More
3206c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaTravelinShoes2]

Acappella Company : Traveling Shoes

Review: The very first release by Acappella featuring a young Keith Lancaster
singing lead and sharing his heart through song. It was the beginning of a long
and succesful career and twenty years later, people are still singing these
songs and this CD is still in great demand. A classic!

Songlist: Mountain Top, God Bless the U.S.A., Jesus Is Your Ticket, Wedding
Day, Travelin Shoes, Easter Song, Praise the Lord, Shut De Do, Be Ye Glad, You
Put This Love In My Heart

\'More
3002c | 00 1 CD | $10.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[acappellaglory200]

Acappella Company : We Have Seen His Glory

Review: From the Islands, to Africa, and back again, this album covers a wide
range of styles. Featuring songs by Keith Lancaster, Duane Adams and George
Pendergrass, this is an album of contemporary praise. On this recording Duane
Adams, Wayburn Dean, Gary Moyers and George Pendergrass are joined by the
A.C.M.S. Chorus. Selections include "Sing to the Glory," "We Will See Jesus,"
"Good Livin'" and "I Understand."

Songlist: Sing To the Glory, We Have Seen His Glory, Glory In His Name, We Will
See Jesus, How Can I Truly Say?, Good Livin', Talk to Jah, Angels Long to Look,
I Understand, To Him Who Sits on the Throne

\'More
3211c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaWedding200]

Acappella Company : Wedding Long Play

Review: How perfectly appropriate to review a wedding CD on Valentine's Day!
Some songs will be fresh to the ears while others have been around wedding
chapels for years. 'You Are Everything' is a contemporary song that is similar
to a James Taylor song in both title and melody. The allure of 'The Wedding
Song' has always been a mystery, however this arrangement has been modified for
the better with restructuring of the rhythmic and harmonic foundations. It is a
much more enjoyable song. The same Don McLean that was drinking whiskey and rye
also composed a few love songs: 'And I Love You So' is a favorite on this
collection. 'A Whole New World' is the signature Disney delegate and a perfect
duet for any ceremony. 'The Lord's Prayer' is an adaptation of the original,
though lyrically simplified it is harmonically rich. This collection is mixed
voices and all songs are suitable for either male or female solo. Each song is
represented twice: one version is the studio version and the other is an
accompanied version minus the solo for ceremonial use. All songs have a
youthful zest and would fall in the contemporary Christian pop category

Songlist: You Are Everything, I Will Be Here, The Wedding Song, Doubly Good to
You, The Lord's Prayer, Wedding March, The Colour Of My Love, Faithful And True
(Contemporary), Faithful And True (Traditional), And I Love You So, A Whole New
World, Oh Perfect Love, You Are Everything - track, I Will Be Here - track, The
Wedding Song - track, Doubly Good to You - track, The Lord's Prayer - track,
The Colour Of My Love - track, And I Love You So - track, Oh Perfect Love -
track

\'More
2278c | 00 1 CD | $14.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaWord200]

Acappella Company : Word Of God Long Play

Review: It is nearly impossible to compile all of the best songs that Keith
Lancaster adapted from the scriptures onto 1 CD. That is why 'Word of God' is 2
CD's and is 50 songs Long Play. This is a compilation of both Old and New
Testament passages featuring fables, miracles and inspiration that are
infinitely inspiring. The arrangements are straightforward, finger snapping and
sing along contemporary acappella in close harmony with traces of Gospel and R&
B influence. All songs were specially selected from previous A Cappella
releases. If you are new to Keith Lancaster and the A Cappella Company, 'Word
of God - Long Play' is a great introduction. A Cappella is an internationally
renowned and respected group of singers dedicated to spreading God's Word in
harmony.

Songlist: More Precious Than Gold, To Him Who Sits On the Throne, How Lovely Is
Your Dwelling Place, Angels Long To Look Into These Things, I Delight In the
Lord, Better Than Life, O Wretched Man, Covenant Of Love, Now to Him, One Thing
I Ask, You Are There, Glory In His Name, Hard Pressed, Hide Me Away, O Lord,
What Do You Think, And My God Will Meet All Your Needs, Let Us Then Approach
the Throne, Walking In the Light, Sing To the Glory, Praise Be To the Lord, And
So I Bow, Be Strong and Courageous, Listen To Him, Everything We Need

\'More
2286c | 00 1 CD | $11.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[2244c200]

Listen to
O What A Glorious God
Acappella Company : Glorious God

Review: "Glorious God" is the second release in the popular "Praise & Harmony"
series, which features a wonderful choir of nearly 300 mixed-voice singers who
sing an uplifting collection of 25 songs of worship. These joyous songs make us
want to get up and sing along, and a vocal training disc is also included, so
that we can even learn and memorize the SATB harmony parts! Favorites are hard
to pick here, because founder Keith Lancaster's sure touch is everywhere-three
songs, many of the arrangements and the production are his. The soaring bass
line of "Let Us Worship," the tender "I Worship You, Almighty God," "Holy and
Anointed One" with its sweet refrain, "Your name is like honey on my lips, your
spirit like water to my soul...", the inspirational "The Battle Belongs to the
Lord," the call and response "Hallowed Be Thy Name," Keith Lancaster's own
"Worthy Lord," "One Thing I Ask" and "Glory and Honor," the powerful "He Is
Jehovah," the rhythmic round "King of Kings," the title tune "O What A Glorious
God," "Celebrate Jesus," one of our favorite tunes, "Down To The River,"
"Christian Jubilee" and the rich crescendos of "Days Of Elijah..." each of
these is a well-chosen gem. One of the most prolific Contemporary Christian
ministries, with 27 titles, Acappella Company is also one of our favorites,
because the music and lyrics are filled with love, and, in the words of their
slogan, "you can hear it in our voice." We can, and we know you'll love
"Glorious God!" Includes a vocalist training CD to help you learn your part
(soprano, alto, tenor or bass) on each of these great songs. This set is a
wonderful teaching tool for churches and singing groups.

Songlist: Let Us Worship, Worthy Lord, I Worship You, Almighty God, There Is
None Like You , Holy And Anointed One, Here I Am To Worship, The Battle Belongs
To The Lord, Come Let Us Sing, Hallowed Be Thy Name, Beautiful Lamb Of God,
Lord, Your Tenderness, One Thing I Ask, Glory And Honor, He Is Jehovah, King of
Kings, Great Is The Lord Almighty, O What A Glorious God, Celebrate Jesus, God
Has Smiled On Me, East To West, Down To The River, Christian Jubilee, Blessed
Be The Lord God Almighty, Shout To The Lord, Days of Elijah

\'More
2244c | 00 2 CDs | $15.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[holygod200]

Acappella Company : Holy God

Review: Holy God is a chorus of voices, hundreds strong, glorifying an
indescribable God. Recorded in Tulsa with over 300 singers from all over the
United States, Holy God is third in the Praise & Harmony series that is
sweeping across the world. Hundreds of churches are using this series as
training ground for their corporate worship. Thousands more immerse themselves
into their personal worship on a daily basis with albums from the Praise &
Harmony. Holy God will certainly fill the demand for both. Also included is a
vocalist training disc that allows you to learn to sing each song in harmony
and experience the power of Praise & Harmony yourself.

Songlist: Praise the Lord, O Worship the King, Come Thou Almighty King, We
Praise Thee O God, My Hope is Built, All Hail the Power of Jesus Name, Joyful,
Joyful We Adore Thee, Doxology, He Leadeth Me, Nearer, Still Nearer, Dear Lord
and Father of Mankind, It May Be at Morn, It Is Well With My Soul, Christ the
Lord is Risen, Christ We Do All Adore Thee, O Sacred Head, Hallelujah! What a
Savior, O Praise the Lord, Lord We Come Before Thee Now, I Need Thee Every
Hour, On Zion's Glorious Summit, The Lord is in His Holy Temple, Holy, Holy,
Holy, O Lord, Our Lord, All Creatures of Our God and King

\'More
2265c | 00 2 CDs | $15.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[AcappellaAwesomeGod200]

Acappella Company : Praise & Harmony - Awesome God

Review: The first release in the new Praise & Harmony series, this album
highlights more than 200 vocalists who form the choir for this outstanding
collection of 25 worship songs. From the peaceful and contemplative to the
joyfully upbeat - many in fresh, new arrangements by Keith Lancaster - these
songs will fill your heart with praise. Included also is a a vocalist training
CD to help you learn your part (soprano, alto, tenor or bass) oof each of these
great songs. This set is a wonderful teaching tool for both choirs and groups
as well as an exceptional listening experience. There is also a matching
songbook.

Songlist: Awesome God, Ain't No Rock, Great Are You Lord, We Trust In This Name
of the Lord, Give Thanks to the Lord, My Life is in You, Wonderful Merciful
Savior, Lamb of God, Hide Me Away, O Lord, Open My Heart, Open the Eyes of My
Heart, In Your Presence, I Stand In Awe of You, Lord Reign In Me, Covenant of
Love, There Is No Other Name, It's All Right, We Will Glorify, Come to the
Table, Don't Be Afraid, How Excellent Is Thy Name, Firm Foundation, My Only
Hope Is You, You Are My All In All, That's Why We Praise Him

\'More
2899c | 00 2 CDs | $15.95 | A Cappella Add to shopping cartContemporary
Christian CDs
Christian Vocal Harmony Music

Gospel Groups | Gospel CDs | Christian Groups | Contemporay Christian CDs

Spirituals CDs | Sacred Harp | Gospel DVDs | Contemporay Christian Christmas

Spirituals Arrangements | Spiritual Solo Songbooks | Gospel Arrangements |
Christian Solo Songbooks | Christian Arrangements

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                                  Groups Home

General Search | Choral Search | Arrangement Search | Instructional Search | 
Solo Voice Search | Barbershop Search

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

For More of The Primarily A Cappella On-Line Catalog

Christian | Collegiate | Doo Wop | Barbershop | World | Choral | Contemporary |
Vocal Jazz

Groups | Directors | Composers | Arrangers | Vocal Coaches

Arrangements | Solo Voice | Christmas | DVDs | Instructional for Singers | New
Additions

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

The Harmony Sweepstakes A Cappella Festival

Site Map | A Cappella News | Regional Newsgroups | RSS a cappella feeds | 
Twitter

This item will be permanently removed and cannot be recovered. Delete anyways?

                                   Browse By


                                Music Category
                             [                  ]
                                  Arrangement
                               [              ]
                                    Gender
                                   [      ]
                                 Instructional
                               [              ]
                                    Format
                               [               ]
                                   Christmas
                                  [         ]
                                     Clear

All Rights Reserved   All Content, page design, CGI Copyright (C) United
Singers International

