  • Home
  • Parish Life
      □ Sacraments / Pastoral Care

          ☆ Our Faith
          ☆ What is the Catholic Church
          ☆ Being Catholic Today
          ☆ We Are the Church
          ☆ What are the Sacraments
          ☆ BAPTISM - FAQ’S
          ☆ Marriage
          ☆ Funeral Preparation
          ☆ Perpetual Eucharistic Adoration
          ☆ The Papacy & Christian Unity
          ☆ Liturgical Calendar
          ☆ Prayer

        Ministries & Groups

          ☆ Parish Ministries & Community Groups
          ☆ Liturgy & Music
          ☆ Altar Server Ministry
          ☆ Children's Liturgy of the Word
          ☆ Extraordinary Ministers of Holy Communion
          ☆ Ministry of Hospitality - Ushers/Greeters...
          ☆ Music Ministries
          ☆ Reader
          ☆ Sacristan

        Faith Formation

          ☆ Faith Formation
          ☆ Young Adult Ministry
          ☆ Young Adult Ministry EVENTS
          ☆ Adult Faith Formation
          ☆ High School Faith Formation - CREDO
          ☆ PREP - Parish Religious Education Program
          ☆ Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults and Children (RCIA)
          ☆ Sunday School
          ☆ Vacation Bible School/Catholic Camp

        Youth & Young Adult Ministry

          ☆ Young Adult Ministry
          ☆ Young Adult Ministry EVENTS
          ☆ Catholic Youth Ministry (CYM)
          ☆ IGNITE Sunday for middle and high school
          ☆ PEER MINISTRY
          ☆ Middle School EVENTS
          ☆ High School EVENTS
          ☆ CREDO- High School Faith Formation
          ☆ FORMS: Registration and Off Property
  • Events
      □ 
        Table type calendar

        Agenda Type Calendar

        13 Jan
         
        Rediscover Jesus
        13 Jan
         
        Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope
        14 Jan
         
        Book of Ruth
        20 Jan
         
        Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope
        20 Jan
         
        Rediscover Jesus
  • Homilies
      □ 
        Latest Homilies

        Father Benjamin's Homilies

        Nourishment for your soul

        This could be a description of your sermon section and the vision of
        your organization. and it's messages. Nice way to quickly get your
        point across. You can type anything important here for your visitors to
        read.

        View our Homilies

  • Contact
      □ 
        MASS Times

        Sunday MASS - 7:00am, 8:45am, 10:30am, 12:15pm, 6:00pm

        More Info

        Weekday MASS - 6:45am, 8:30am in the Daily Chapel

        More Info

        Saturday MASS - 8:30am, 5:00pm

         

         

         

  • Team
      □ Parish Support Team

        At Holy Family we are blessed to have a talented and diverse support
        staff. They are available Monday through Friday from 8:30am to 5:00pm
        to help meet our parish needs.

        Meet the Parish Support Team

        Meet our Associate Pastors

        Meet Our Pastor

        Meet our Pastoral Staff

  • Resources
      □ Local

          ☆ HFC School PK - 8th
          ☆ Orlando Diocese
          ☆ The Catholic Community Television Network
          ☆ San Pedro Center
          ☆ Bishop Grady Villas

        US & International

          ☆ Arch Diocese Miami
          ☆ Unites States Conference of Catholic Bishops
          ☆ The Vatican

        Additional

          ☆ Scheduling
          ☆ Lighthouse Catholic Media
          ☆ Faith & Family Resources
          ☆ Additional Catholic Resources

        Daily Readings

        Prayers and Devotions

  • Giving
      □ Online Giving
      □ Stewardship

God is good, all the time; all the time, God is good!

  •  
  •  
  •  
  •  

[HolyFamily]

  • Mass Times & Bulletin

  • Home
  • Parish Life
      □ Sacraments / Pastoral Care

          ☆ Our Faith
          ☆ What is the Catholic Church
          ☆ Being Catholic Today
          ☆ We Are the Church
          ☆ What are the Sacraments
          ☆ BAPTISM - FAQ’S
          ☆ Marriage
          ☆ Funeral Preparation
          ☆ Perpetual Eucharistic Adoration
          ☆ The Papacy & Christian Unity
          ☆ Liturgical Calendar
          ☆ Prayer

        Ministries & Groups

          ☆ Parish Ministries & Community Groups
          ☆ Liturgy & Music
          ☆ Altar Server Ministry
          ☆ Children's Liturgy of the Word
          ☆ Extraordinary Ministers of Holy Communion
          ☆ Ministry of Hospitality - Ushers/Greeters...
          ☆ Music Ministries
          ☆ Reader
          ☆ Sacristan

        Faith Formation

          ☆ Faith Formation
          ☆ Young Adult Ministry
          ☆ Young Adult Ministry EVENTS
          ☆ Adult Faith Formation
          ☆ High School Faith Formation - CREDO
          ☆ PREP - Parish Religious Education Program
          ☆ Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults and Children (RCIA)
          ☆ Sunday School
          ☆ Vacation Bible School/Catholic Camp

        Youth & Young Adult Ministry

          ☆ Young Adult Ministry
          ☆ Young Adult Ministry EVENTS
          ☆ Catholic Youth Ministry (CYM)
          ☆ IGNITE Sunday for middle and high school
          ☆ PEER MINISTRY
          ☆ Middle School EVENTS
          ☆ High School EVENTS
          ☆ CREDO- High School Faith Formation
          ☆ FORMS: Registration and Off Property
  • Events
      □ 
        Table type calendar

        Agenda Type Calendar

        13 Jan
         
        Rediscover Jesus
        13 Jan
         
        Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope
        14 Jan
         
        Book of Ruth
        20 Jan
         
        Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope
        20 Jan
         
        Rediscover Jesus
  • Homilies
      □ 
        Latest Homilies

        Father Benjamin's Homilies

        Nourishment for your soul

        This could be a description of your sermon section and the vision of
        your organization. and it's messages. Nice way to quickly get your
        point across. You can type anything important here for your visitors to
        read.

        View our Homilies

  • Contact
      □ 
        MASS Times

        Sunday MASS - 7:00am, 8:45am, 10:30am, 12:15pm, 6:00pm

        More Info

        Weekday MASS - 6:45am, 8:30am in the Daily Chapel

        More Info

        Saturday MASS - 8:30am, 5:00pm

         

         

         

  • Team
      □ Parish Support Team

        At Holy Family we are blessed to have a talented and diverse support
        staff. They are available Monday through Friday from 8:30am to 5:00pm
        to help meet our parish needs.

        Meet the Parish Support Team

        Meet our Associate Pastors

        Meet Our Pastor

        Meet our Pastoral Staff

  • Resources
      □ Local

          ☆ HFC School PK - 8th
          ☆ Orlando Diocese
          ☆ The Catholic Community Television Network
          ☆ San Pedro Center
          ☆ Bishop Grady Villas

        US & International

          ☆ Arch Diocese Miami
          ☆ Unites States Conference of Catholic Bishops
          ☆ The Vatican

        Additional

          ☆ Scheduling
          ☆ Lighthouse Catholic Media
          ☆ Faith & Family Resources
          ☆ Additional Catholic Resources

        Daily Readings

        Prayers and Devotions

  • Giving
      □ Online Giving
      □ Stewardship

slideshow

  • [dummy]
    [dummy]
    Investiture for Monsignor Ennis
    January 30, 2016 - St. Patrick's Hall - 7:00 pm
  • [dummy]
    The Holy Eucharist
    the source and summit of the Christian life
  • [dummy]
    [dummy]
    Investiture for Monsignor Ennis
    January 30, 2016 - St. Patrick's Hall - 7:00 pm
  • [dummy]
    COME TO THE FEAST
    of Heaven and Earth
  • [dummy]
  • [dummy]
    [dummy]
    Investiture for Monsignor Ennis
    January 30, 2016 - St. Patrick's Hall - 7:00 pm

First time visitor? .... Find out how, where and when we worship. We hope to
see you soon!!
Visitors info

  • Ministries

    Our Ministries

  • Religious Education

    Religious Education

  • Youth Ministries

    Youth Ministries

  • School

    Catholic School

  • orlando diocese

    Orlando Diocese

  • cctn_logo

    CCTN

  • Respect Life

    Funeral Schedule

Welcome to Holy Family Orlando

South West Orlando’s Catholic Community

Dearest Members of Holy Family Catholic Church:

As we begin the New Year and the festivities of the Christmas Season wind down,
we are given an opportunity, to once again, “Start Anew”! This rebirth of life
is seen every year in the Celebration of the New Year. We talk of new plans,
new resolutions and change. I particularly like the characters we see during
the New Year celebration. You know the ones; the ones of the Old man walking
off with his cane, while the Newborn, in diapers, becomes the new marketable
image of a New Year (or New Life). The image is striking, in that it implies
that with a New Year we get a new start, as if the failures and problems of the
past can be done away with!

Today in the Gospel we hear the story of the Wise men’s visit to the infant
Jesus. We recall the gifts they offer to this infant. We are reminded that this
New Beginning seen and hoped for in this child, recreates a new world for not
only the people of Israel, but with the presence of the magi, the Scripture
stresses that it covers a re-creation that incorporates the whole world.

As we plan for the year ahead we are reminded that we are indeed new people
because of Jesus’ presence in our world. We are reminded that we can face our
past failures and problems from a different light now. The holiday that we just
celebrates helps us keep in mind that God’s choice for us is not to remake us,
but allow ourselves become what He always wanted us to be. He does this through
His Mercy and Love. May this goal be yours through the year that is ahead of
us!

 

Sincerely yours in Christ,

frjohn_sig

 

 

Very Rev. John C. Giel, V.G.

Rediscover Jesus

January 13, 2016 7:00 pm

  • Days
  • Hours
  • Minutes
  • Seconds

Read more

Parish Activities

.

Upcoming Events View Calendar

  • 13 Jan
     

    Rediscover Jesus

    7:00 pm :PLC Rm. #3
  • 13 Jan
     

    Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope

    7:00 pm
  • 14 Jan
     

    Book of Ruth

    7:00 pm :Parish Life Center
  • 20 Jan
     

    Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope

    7:00 pm
  • 20 Jan
     

    Rediscover Jesus

    7:00 pm :PLC Rm. #3
  • 21 Jan
     

    Book of Ruth

    7:00 pm :Parish Life Center
  • 22 Jan
     

    Prayer Service for Christian Persecution

    7:00 pm :St. Jude Maronite Catholic Church
  • 27 Jan
     

    Mercy, Heart of Faith, and Reason to Hope

    7:00 pm

Latest Homilies View Homilies

  • Fr. Benjamin

    The Baptism of the Lord

    Fr. Benjamin Lehnertz

    January 11, 2016

    More Info
    http://holyfamilyorlando.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/JAN-10.mp3
  • Fr. Benjamin

    The Epiphany of the Lord

    Fr. Benjamin Lehnertz

    January 6, 2016

    More Info
    http://holyfamilyorlando.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/JAN-3.mp3
  • Fr. Benjamin

    Feast of the Holy Family

    Fr. Benjamin Lehnertz

    December 29, 2015

    More Info
    http://holyfamilyorlando.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/DEC-27-1.mp3
  • Fr. Benjamin

    Fourth Sunday of Advent

    Fr. Benjamin Lehnertz

    December 21, 2015

    More Info
    http://holyfamilyorlando.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/DEC-20.mp3
  • Fr. Benjamin

    Third Sunday of Advent

    Fr. Benjamin Lehnertz

    December 14, 2015

    More Info
    http://holyfamilyorlando.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/DEC-13.mp3
  • Fr. Benjamin

    Second Sunday of Advent

    Fr. Benjamin Lehnertz

    December 7, 2015

    More Info
    http://holyfamilyorlando.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/NOV-6EDIT.mp3

Upcoming Events

Father Ennis Investiture with Background and embossed

Investiture for Monsignor Ennis

Register HERE Investiture for Monsignor Ennis St. Patrick’s Hall @ HFCC January
30, 2016 – […]

January 12, 2016
Book of Ruth

Book of Ruth

Come join us for a study session on the Book of Ruth conducted by Deacon […]

December 28, 2015

Get involved

The success of our Church depends on participation from people like you. Get
involved in our Ministries - it will change your life.

Youth Ministry
Bible Study
Peer Ministry
Fall Festival
Weddings

Our Gallery

  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image
  • image

  • Scheduling

    Scheduling

(C) (2016)
©Copyright 2015 Daniel Roberts - ©Copyright 2015 Holy Family Catholic Church
Orlando Florida - Proudly Designed by Croma
