web analytics

ANSWERS For The Faith

Answering Issues of //Religion//Culture//and the Christian Faith

  • •HOME
  • •About/Contact
  • •Comment/Privacy Policy
  • •AD Disclaimer
  • •Directories

[To Search: type, h]

[bh-125x125]

Don’t Miss an Update! -Subscribe:

[feed-icon3]•Feed
•Subscribe by Email
Follow AforFaith on Twitter

Recent Posts

  • -Is Freedom Possible Without Belief in God?
  • -Condemnation for Atheist Billboard Vandals
  • -Africa: A New Center of Christianity?
  • -Happy New Year 2016
  • -Merry Christmas 2015

Categories

  • -Gobal Warming
  • -Russia
  • -Same-sex Union
  • 9/11/01
  • Abortion
  • Afghanistan
  • Africa
  • Apologetics
      □ -'Gospel of Judas'
      □ -Astrology
      □ -Atheism
      □ -Creationism
      □ -Cult of Death
      □ -Da Vinci Code
      □ -Evolution
      □ -Gnosticism
      □ -Lost Tomb of Jesus?
      □ -Mormonism
      □ -Resurrection
      □ -Secularism
      □ -The Creator
      □ Evolution
      □ Gospel of Jesus' Wife
      □ Jesus Christ
      □ Materialism
  • Archaeology
  • Atheist Activists
  • Atheist Agenda
  • Barack Obama
      □ DHS
      □ Foreign Policy
      □ Obama Administration
          ☆ HHS Mandate
      □ Obama White House
      □ Peace?
      □ Progressive Agenda
  • Bible Study
      □ -Apocalypse
      □ -Bible Issues
          ☆ Bible
              ○ Biblical Teaching
      □ -End Times
          ☆ One World System
      □ -Gospel of Mark
      □ -Ministry of Jesus
      □ -New Testament
      □ -New Testament
      □ -Old Testament
      □ Bible Prophecy
  • Blogging
      □ -Banners & Buttons
      □ -Conference
      □ -WordPress
      □ Facebook
      □ FCC Regulation
      □ Internet
  • Book Review
      □ -Novel
      □ -Serial Review
          ☆ -"The Lost G. of Judas Iscariot"
          ☆ -"What Jesus Demands"
  • Boy Scouts
  • Buddhism
      □ Bhutan
  • California
  • Canada
  • China
      □ Dalai Lama
      □ House Church Movement
  • Christian living
      □ -Christian Businesses
      □ -Education
      □ -Families
          ☆ -Prayer
      □ -Healing
      □ -Morality
      □ -Outreach
      □ -Persecution
      □ -Repentance
      □ -Sunday School
      □ -Traditional Marriage
      □ Christian Witness
      □ Christianophobia
      □ Divorce
      □ Intercession
  • Christianity
      □ -Christmas
          ☆ War on Christmas
      □ -Early Christianity
      □ -Easter
      □ -Ministry
      □ -Missions
      □ American Church
      □ Catholic
      □ Catholic Church
      □ Chrislam
      □ Christian Organizations
      □ Christian Schools
      □ Christians
      □ Church Conferences
      □ Church of England
      □ Coptic Church
      □ Evangelical Christians
      □ Good Friday
      □ Lutheran Church
      □ Miracles
      □ Non-Profit Organizations
      □ Orthodox Church
      □ Pentecostal Christians
      □ Pope Benedict
      □ Pope Francis I
      □ Reformation
      □ Revival
      □ Southern Baptist Convention
      □ United Church of Canada
  • Court Decisions
      □ Judicial Activism
      □ Lawsuits
      □ Legal Action
      □ SCOTUS
  • Culture & Religion
      □ -Freedom of Religion
      □ -Holocaust
      □ -Religious Persecution
      □ -UK
      □ Anti-Semitism
      □ Attacks on Churches
      □ Culture Wars
          ☆ Attacks on Christianity
      □ Europe
      □ Holidays
      □ India
      □ Internet Ministry
      □ Iraq
      □ Paganism
      □ Prejudice
      □ Religious Conflict
      □ Secularism
      □ Sports and Religion
  • Culture Clash
      □ -Homosexual Lifestyle
      □ -Pornography
      □ Abortion
  • Denmark
  • Disabilities
  • Discrimination
  • Ebola
  • Economy
      □ Recession
      □ Way of Life
  • Education
  • Entertainment
  • Environment
  • Episcopal Church
  • Ethiopia
  • Europe
  • Euthanasia
  • France
  • Google
  • Halloweeen
  • Hinduism
  • Holiday
  • Homeschooling
  • Homosexual
  • Humor
  • Incest
  • Independence Day
  • Internet
  • Ireland
  • Islam
      □ 'Ground Zero Mosque'
      □ -Ahmadinejad
      □ -Islam and Christianity
      □ -Jihad
      □ -Sharia Law
      □ -Taliban
      □ -This week: Among the Muslim Fanatics
      □ -Turkey
      □ 12th Imam
      □ Afghanistan
      □ Africa
      □ American Muslims
      □ Blasphemy Laws
      □ Boko Haram
      □ CAIR
      □ Dubai
      □ Egypt
      □ Hajj
      □ Hamas
      □ Honor Killings
      □ Indonesia
      □ Iran
          ☆ -Nuclear Weapons
      □ Iraq
      □ ISIS
      □ Islamic Domination
      □ Islamic Intolerance
      □ Islamic Terrorism
      □ Islamist Radicals
      □ Jordan
      □ Kuwait
      □ Libya
      □ Middle East
      □ Muslim Brotherhood
      □ Muslim Culture
      □ New Islamic Caliphate
      □ Osama Bin Laden
      □ Pakistan
      □ Palestinians
      □ Quran
      □ Saudi Arabia
      □ Sudan
      □ Syria
      □ Tunisia
  • Israel
      □ -Pray for Jerusalem
  • Italy
  • Jesus
  • Judaism
      □ -Anti-Semitism
      □ -Zionism
      □ Ancient Judaism
      □ Biblical Calendar
      □ Israel
  • Korea
  • Laos
  • Memorial Day
  • Mexico
  • Mitt Romney
  • Mormonism
  • Movie Review
      □ -Movie Industry
      □ -Movie Trailer
      □ Christian Movie
      □ Faith Based Films
  • MSM
      □ Media Bias
      □ MSM and Religion
  • National Day of Prayer
  • Natural Disasters
  • New Age
  • New Year
  • New York
  • News Commentary
      □ -Announcement
  • News Commentary
  • Nigeria
  • Ordination of Gays
  • Philippines
  • Politics
      □ 'Hate Crimes'
      □ -'Family Planning'
      □ -ACLU
      □ -Assisted Suicide
      □ -Church and State
          ☆ -Free Exercise of Religion
          ☆ US Military
      □ -Drug Culture
      □ -Eminent Domain
      □ -Freedom of Speech
      □ -Gay Agenda
          ☆ -'Special Rights'
          ☆ Redefinition of Marriage
      □ -Immigration
      □ -Marriage
      □ -Non-Profits
      □ -Parental Rights
      □ -Political Corruption
      □ -Politically Correct
      □ -Politics & Religion
      □ -Politics & Religion
      □ -Pro-Life
      □ -Same-sex Union
      □ -Schools
      □ -War on Terror
      □ -Woman's Rights
      □ Civil Rights
      □ Congress
      □ Economic Freedom
      □ Election
      □ Free Speech
      □ Freedom of Press
          ☆ -Agenda Driven Media
      □ Freedom of Worship
      □ Gay Activists
      □ Hillary Clinton
      □ Homosexual Marriage
      □ Homosexual Rights
      □ LGBT
      □ Military Chaplains
      □ Obama Health Care
      □ One World Government
      □ pornography
      □ Same-Sex Marriage
      □ Schools and Religion
      □ Transgender Rights
  • Polyamory
  • Polygamy
  • Prayer
  • Presbyterian Church (USA)
  • Racism
  • Riots
  • Russia
  • Sanctity of Life
      □ Stem Cell Research
  • Schools
  • Science and Religion
  • Sports
  • Terrorism
  • Texas
  • Thanksgiving
  • The Bible
  • Theology
      □ -Agnostic
      □ -Atheism
      □ -Christology
      □ -Eschatology
      □ -God
      □ -Holy Spirit
      □ -Physiology of Religion
      □ Afterlife
  • Toleration
  • TV Review
  • Twitter
  • UK
  • Ukraine
  • UN
  • Uncategorized
  • USA
      □ Constitutional Rights
  • Utah
  • Valentine's Day
  • Veteran's Day
  • Vietnam
  • World Views
  • www.culture

vineyard-roll.gif

Religion Blogs - Blog Top Sites

Visitor Map

Locations of visitors to this page

-Is Freedom Possible Without Belief in God?

by Dr. D ~ January 9th, 2016

Declaration of Independence

       (Declaration of Independence: amslerPIX)

Is freedom possible without belief in God? Most in America today would say it
is. After all we do have a Constitution that guarantees our freedoms. However,
in a recent speech Justice Antonin Scalia indicated that God had a major part
to play in the historical success of the American governmental experiment. Also
at the very beginning of our nation Thomas Jefferson who was known to be among
the most ‘secular’ of the founding fathers penned the now famous phrase:

    “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,
    that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights,
    that among these are Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness.”

We have written before on the important part that belief in a Creator played in
the very founding documents of the American nation. Without God than who or
what defines our unalienable rights and freedoms? The answer today is our
Constitution and case law. However we have seen in the last generation how the
very words of that document have been twisted and forced into saying things
never envisioned and or in some cases quite contrary to the intent of the
original writers.

Fact is, the philosophical underpinnings of our Constitution and system of
government were the product of a Western Christian/Biblical culture which seems
to be falling away in this generation. Will our form of government that is
dependent on good will toward each other and Biblical morality survive the
current secularization of the American society? In the future what will be the
philosophical consensus that guarantee the successful continuation of the
American experiment if God is totally taken out of the equation?

I guess ultimately the majority will rule and decide what is ‘right’ or
‘wrong.’ Many secular folks in our culture now say there is no such thing. But
laws have to be crafted based upon such notions or there is nothing but chaos
and disorder. Also the people need to decide to be ruled by those decisions
otherwise again there will be civil disobedience and conflict. There needs to
be a consensus of the people or disorder and rebellion will be the result. In
the past, it was provided by Judaic-Christian values (Biblical and faith based)
which were accepted by the vast majority. That consensus is now breaking down
in this generation.

If America forgets about God and his teachings, what will become the overriding
philosophical basis of agreement in the future? Many of us believe that tyranny
and despotism may be the result using order and peace as an excuse in a
‘godless’ future. At the very least America will be fundamentally changed and
our freedoms will be challenged.

Here’s an excellent article that initiated my thinking today on this issue: “Is
Freedom Possible Without Faith in God?”

*Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: American Culture, God and Morality
Filed under: -Church and State, Constitutional Rights, Culture & Religion, USA
Be the first to comment >>

-Condemnation for Atheist Billboard Vandals

by Dr. D ~ January 6th, 2016

vandalized

                                                                    
(Screenshot from KRDO.com video)

A Christmas billboard put up by American Atheists was damaged in Colorado and a
Christian organization officially spoke out against the vandals. Here’s the
story from the Christian Post:

    A conservative Christian organization based in Colorado has denounced the
    vandalism of an atheist billboard that advises people to "skip church."  …

    Paul Batura, spokesman for Focus on the Family, told The Christian Post on
    Tuesday that despite disagreeing with the billboard’s message it shouldn’t
    have been defaced.

    "Vandalism has no place in a civilized society," said Batura. "We disagree
    with their message but we certainly respect their right to say it."

    "We don’t know who is responsible for the damage, but to deliberately
    deface private property is a foolish and immature response to any
    objections one might have regarding the message of the billboard."

<Read the whole article>

Response: It is sad that someone decided to vandalize this controversial
atheist billboard. Some are claiming that the atheists probably did this
themselves for the publicity. However that is improbable since they had already
received plenty of media notice for these ‘Christmas’ billboards that
encouraged folks to skip church during the Christmas season. Also the message
seems to indicate that a believer might have done the damage.

We condemn the vandalism even though we may disagree with the billboard and
find it’s message troubling. However the vandalism is even more troubling in
spite of the fact that we agree with the message- “God is not dead.”

Vandalism is just plain wrong and cannot be morally supported in any way. Plus
as a strategic response to the atheist message it was a complete failure since
it brought further attention to the billboard and even some
sympathy.               *Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: Atheist Outreach, Christian Organization
Filed under: Atheist Activists, Christian Organizations, Culture & Religion
Be the first to comment >>

-Africa: A New Center of Christianity?

by Dr. D ~ January 4th, 2016

200px-Africa_(orthographic_projection).svg

                          (Image: Wikipedia)

This is really not news to those of us who have been following the spread of
Christianity around the world in the 21st century and Christian missions in
particular. Africa is quickly becoming a new center of Christianity with over
469 million believers accounting for nearly half of the population. Not only
that, but church attendance figures are among the best of any Christian
population. All of this in spite of the fact that North Africa is dominated by
Islam.

Here is an interesting article from The Economist of all places calling
attention to astounding rise of Christianity in African continent:

    Sub-Saharan Africa is not only home to the world’s most observant
    Christians; it is also the fastest-growing region on the planet by
    population. And its entrenched poverty means that even if it enjoys decades
    of rapid economic development, it is unlikely to reach the levels of wealth
    that tend to correspond to increased secularisation. As Christians
    celebrate the birth of Christ, the centre of gravity of the world’s most
    popular religion is shifting towards the birthplace of humanity itself.

<Read the whole article>

Response: Those of us in America and the West have been observing a decline in
Christian influence, but this is not the case around the world. Years ago we
wrote about the shifting center of Christianity in light of the missions in
Africa and Asia and linked to a Christianity Today article.

It is obvious that Africa will soon become a new center of Christian activity
in the 21st century. Already some African churches are sending missionaries to
Europe and even the USA.  New Christian colleges, universities, and seminaries
are being founded every year on the continent and soon it will also become a
new center for Christian thought and theology sometime in this generation.

African Christian institutions could conceivably replace those in America and
Europe which have become so secularized that they have forgotten their former
Christian roots and even may oppose a Christian world view. Remember that
Harvard, Yale, Princeton and many other major universities were originally
founded as ‘Christian’ seminaries to train new ministers and church leaders.

Will Africa become the new major center of Christianity in 50 years or so? Time
will tell. Asia also offers a promising future for Christianity. China is now
estimated to have over 150 million Christians while in South Korea the
Christian population is closing in on 50%. I also personally know of one
Christian mission group in India which is experiencing an exponential growth
rate that could change the face of that country in 20 years or so.

We do live in interesting times when more people are converting to Christianity
around the world than in any other time. But with it there is also more
Christians subjected to persecution and death than any other time since the 1st
century with the Boko Haram also in Africa leading the way.            *Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: Africa, Christianity
Filed under: -Missions, Africa, Christianity, Culture & Religion
Be the first to comment >>

-Happy New Year 2016

by Dr. D ~ January 2nd, 2016

May God Bless you and yours during this new year.

With the new year, many want to improve their lives in 2016. One of the best
ways to do that is to read the Bible daily in the new year.

imageimage

Several polls taken during the last year have unfortunately demonstrated that
American Christians are somewhat illiterate when it comes to the Bible and
particularly Biblical teachings. One good way to reverse the trend is to set
aside time to read the good book everyday. An excellent idea is to read through
the whole Bible or at least the New Testament during 2016. There are a number
of good programs to help you in the process.

One of the easiest ways to get it done is to get a ‘One Year Bible’ where the
whole year is divided up into daily readings usually with a selection from the
New Testament, the Old Testament, and from Psalms. You can even get it in your
favorite version at the book store or at Amazon.

If you find that reading all of it in one year is maybe too much, then you
could read just the New Testament and Psalm offerings for each day and then
maybe save the Old Testament or the following year (or visa versa).

There are also a number of good plans available that allow you to use your
regular Bible for the reading. Here’s a few online: The One year Bible Online,
Bible Year-eSword, Bible Gateway

You could also get the Bible on CD or tape and listen to it on the way to work
this year or download it into your iPod, iPhone or MP3: iTunes, Apps me now

There are lots more Bible helps available just search online.

May God Bless us all in 2016.               *Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: New Year
Filed under: New Year
Be the first to comment >>

-Merry Christmas 2015

by Dr. D ~ December 24th, 2015

04567_Christmas_nativity_scene_at_the_Franciscan_church_in_Sanok_2010_thumb

                                                                                         
(Image via Wikipedia)

Merry Christmas to you and yours and may God truly bless you this Christmas
Day.

The Real Christmas Story

When our children were growing up it was a family tradition to read about the
‘real’ Christmas story in the Bible on Christmas Eve.

You’ve probably seen a dozen or so ‘Christmas stories’ on TV in the last couple
of weeks but the real Christmas story is found in Matthew (Matt. 1:18-2:18) and
in Luke (Luke 1:26-56, 2:1-40). However, Isaiah should never be ignored:

    Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name
    Immanuel. (Isaiah 7:14)

    For to us a child is born,
    to us a son is given;
    and the government shall be upon his shoulder,
    and his name shall be called
    Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,
    Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. (Isaiah 9:6)

Matthew gives us the story largely from the perspective of Joseph, including
the dreams that he had and his family genealogy. In this gospel the ‘Kingship’
of Jesus is the major topic. Starting with the Davidic Kingly genealogy through
Joseph and the coming of the Magi (Wisemen) who are looking for the new king.
Also King Herod’s reaction is in Matthew.

The events in Luke are given to us from Mary’s view. The angel Gabriel appears
to Mary and announces the coming of the child. Mary’s genealogy is also given
in Luke (Luke 3:23-38), she was also a descendant of David, but not in the
‘Kingly’ line. Chapter 2 begins with the Christmas story that everyone is
familiar with:

    1 In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world
    should be registered. 2 This was the first registration when Quirinius was
    governor of Syria. 3 And all went to be registered, each to his own town. 4
    And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea,
    to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the
    house and lineage of David, 5 to be registered with Mary, his betrothed,
    who was with child. 6 And while they were there, the time came for her to
    give birth. 7 And she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in
    swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for
    them in the inn.

    8 And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping
    watch over their flock by night. 9 And an angel of the Lord appeared to
    them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled
    with fear. 10 And the angel said to them, “Fear not, for behold, I bring
    you good news of a great joy that will be for all the people. 11 For unto
    you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.
    12 And this will be a sign for you: you will find a baby wrapped in
    swaddling cloths and lying in a manger.” 13 And suddenly there was with the
    angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,

    14 “Glory to God in the highest,
    and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased!”

However, nothing explains the real reason for the season better than John
3:16-17:

    For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that
    whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

    For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the
    world through him might be saved.  -KJV

*Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: -Christmas
Filed under: -Christmas
3 Comments >>

-Brunei: Wear a Santa Hat and Go to Jail?

by Dr. D ~ December 22nd, 2015

220px-Hassanal_Bolkiah

(Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan of Brunei)

In the Muslim nation of Brunei it is against the law to publically celebrate
Christmas in any way. Those caught could receive 5 years in prison. Here’s the
story from the Blaze: 

    Citizens of the oil-rich nation of Brunei could face up to five years in
    prison if they engage in public celebrations of Christmas, such as wearing
    Santa hats and sending holiday greetings, British and Australian media
    reported.  …

    Under the directive, Christians are allowed to celebrate the holiday but
    only in private.  …

    “During Christmas celebrations, Muslims following that religion’s acts —
    such as using their religious symbols like cross, lighting candles, making
    Christmas trees and singing religious songs, sending Christmas greetings,
    using signs praising the religion, putting up decorations or creating
    sounds and doing anything that amounts to respecting their religion — are
    against Islamic faith,” the Muslim leaders said.

<Read the whole article>

Response: This is really nothing new. Any public displays and celebrations of
Christmas in most Muslim nations are against the law or at least subject to
local persecution.

This should remind us to treasure our religious freedom in America and the West
where everyone can celebrate religious traditions openly without worrying about
persecution or jail.            *Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: -Christmas, Christmas and Culture
Filed under: -Christmas, Culture Clash, Islamic Intolerance
Be the first to comment >>

-Is “White Christmas” a ‘Racist’ Song? Some College Students Think So?

by Dr. D ~ December 22nd, 2015

Is the popular Christmas classic “White Christmas” a ‘racist’ song that needs
to be banned from radio? Apparently some college students think so. Though I am
not sure how much actual thinking went into this. See the video above and read
the story from MRCTV:

    Last week, I presented some college students with a petition urging radio
    stations to stop playing the holiday classic "White Christmas" because the
    song only focuses on "White" Christmases. This clearly makes it racially
    insensitive, since it completely ignores Christmases of other colors.

<Read the whole article>

Response: Obviously the petition was designed to show how ‘Political
Correctness’ has run amuck on our college campuses. Add this to the recent
stories of college and university administrators banning ‘taco days’ in the
cafeteria because they were also supposedly ‘racist’ and offensive.

I guess a white guy (Bing Crosby) hoping for a ‘white Christmas’ falls into the
same category? Only in PC America.               *Top

>>>Don't Miss an Update! **CLICK NOW** & Receive ANSWERS For The Faith by Email
<<<

Tags: -Christmas, PC Overreactions
Filed under: -Christmas, -Political Corruption, -Schools, USA
1 Comment >>

<< Previous Entries

  • BLOG DIRECTORY:
  • •MAIN BLOG
  • •BIBLE Q & A
  • •BIBLE STUDY
  • •APOLOGETICA
  • •PRAYER Line
  • •BOOK REVIEWS
  • •MOVIES & TV Commentary

**AFTF Blogs-Recent Posts:

[125_125Gen]

RSS •BIBLE Q & A:

  • –>Send Us Your Bible Questions:
  • -Was Jesus Really Born on December 25?
  • -Christmas Q & A’s
  • -Resurrection Day Celebration 2015: Easter Questions and Answers

RSS •BIBLE STUDY:

  • -GOSPEL OF MARK
  • -The Christmas Story
  • -Bible Study for Easter

RSS •APOLOGETICA:

  • -Happy New Year 2016
  • -Merry Christmas 2015
  • -Muslims ‘Have Nothing Whatsoever To Do With Terrorism’?

RSS •PRAYERLINE:

  • -Praying Psalm 147
  • *Prayer Line -Please Send Us Prayer Requests,
  • -Praying Psalm 146
  • -Praying Psalm 145
  • -Praying Psalm 144

RSS •BOOK REVIEWS:

  • -“The Third Target”
  • -“River World: The Dark Design”
  • -“The Heavenly Man”
  • -“The Islamic Antichrist”

RSS •MOVIES & TV Commentary:

  • Christian Reviews:
  • -New TLC Series: ‘Answered Prayers’
  • -On Hallmark: “Signed, Sealed, Delivered: From Paris With Love”
  • “Little Boy”

MY OTHER BLOGS–RECENT POSTS:

RSS •CHARISMATICA

  • -Happy New Year 2016
  • -Merry Christmas 2015
  • -The Incredible Underground Revival Among Muslims in the Middle East

RSS •Blogging Ministry

  • -Pastors and Social media: Five Mistakes to Avoid
  • -Tips on Growing Long-Term Authority
  • -Trackbacks vs. ‘Bottombacks,’ ‘Nothingbacks,’ and ‘Spambacks’

Featured in Alltop
[badge_8-b]

Recent Comments

  • -Is Freedom Possible Without Belief in God? | ANSWERS For The Faith on
    -Independence Day 2015: “Endowed by their Creator”
  • -Africa: A New Center of Christianity? | ANSWERS For The Faith on The
    Shifting Center of Christianity
  • Jerry Attrick on -Is Being Black and Being Gay the Same Thing?
  • mark on -Merry Christmas 2015
  • Dr. D on -Merry Christmas 2015

AFTF Blogs

  • Answers Bible Q & A
  • Answers Bible Study
  • Answers Book Reviews
  • ANSWERS For The Faith
  • Answers Movies & TV Commentary
  • Answers Prayer Line

Aggregators

  • Vineyard Directory Blogroll

Bloggerati

  • Hugh Hewitt
  • James Lileks
  • Victor Davis Hanson

Godblogs

  • Adrian Warnock-UK
  • Albert Mohler
  • Blogging Ministry
  • Blogotional
  • Evangelical Outpost
  • La Shawn Barber
  • Smart Christian
  • Stones Cry Out
  • The Bible Illustration Blog
  • Tim Challies
  • VOM Persecution Blog

My Other Blogs

  • APOLOGETICA
  • Blogging Ministry
  • CHARISMATICA

PoliBlogs

  • Hugh Hewitt
  • Instapundit
  • Mark Steyn
  • Michelle Malkin
  • National Review
  • Politico
  • Powerline
  • Real Clear Politics

Quantcast

Archives

  • January 2016 (4)
  • December 2015 (9)
  • November 2015 (8)
  • October 2015 (16)
  • September 2015 (11)
  • August 2015 (15)
  • July 2015 (18)
  • June 2015 (23)
  • May 2015 (21)
  • April 2015 (20)
  • March 2015 (19)
  • February 2015 (16)
  • January 2015 (15)
  • December 2014 (13)
  • November 2014 (14)
  • October 2014 (19)
  • September 2014 (19)
  • August 2014 (15)
  • July 2014 (17)
  • June 2014 (18)
  • May 2014 (20)
  • April 2014 (18)
  • March 2014 (18)
  • February 2014 (16)
  • January 2014 (21)
  • December 2013 (19)
  • November 2013 (22)
  • October 2013 (19)
  • September 2013 (16)
  • August 2013 (20)
  • July 2013 (17)
  • June 2013 (11)
  • May 2013 (22)
  • April 2013 (20)
  • March 2013 (25)
  • February 2013 (29)
  • January 2013 (19)
  • December 2012 (26)
  • November 2012 (21)
  • October 2012 (27)
  • September 2012 (26)
  • August 2012 (26)
  • July 2012 (32)
  • June 2012 (26)
  • May 2012 (25)
  • April 2012 (18)
  • March 2012 (20)
  • February 2012 (27)
  • January 2012 (27)
  • December 2011 (35)
  • November 2011 (31)
  • October 2011 (25)
  • September 2011 (22)
  • August 2011 (22)
  • July 2011 (20)
  • June 2011 (24)
  • May 2011 (26)
  • April 2011 (27)
  • March 2011 (27)
  • February 2011 (20)
  • January 2011 (22)
  • December 2010 (24)
  • November 2010 (26)
  • October 2010 (23)
  • September 2010 (22)
  • August 2010 (24)
  • July 2010 (33)
  • June 2010 (26)
  • May 2010 (27)
  • April 2010 (27)
  • March 2010 (28)
  • February 2010 (25)
  • January 2010 (23)
  • December 2009 (26)
  • November 2009 (24)
  • October 2009 (22)
  • September 2009 (20)
  • August 2009 (13)
  • July 2009 (26)
  • June 2009 (22)
  • May 2009 (33)
  • April 2009 (26)
  • March 2009 (28)
  • February 2009 (24)
  • January 2009 (24)
  • December 2008 (28)
  • November 2008 (29)
  • October 2008 (30)
  • September 2008 (19)
  • August 2008 (14)
  • July 2008 (16)
  • June 2008 (11)
  • May 2008 (7)
  • April 2008 (11)
  • March 2008 (14)
  • February 2008 (21)
  • January 2008 (19)
  • December 2007 (17)
  • November 2007 (26)
  • October 2007 (27)
  • September 2007 (26)
  • August 2007 (24)
  • July 2007 (14)
  • June 2007 (17)
  • May 2007 (11)
  • April 2007 (12)
  • March 2007 (18)
  • February 2007 (17)
  • January 2007 (5)
  • December 2006 (8)
  • November 2006 (10)
  • October 2006 (9)
  • September 2006 (5)
  • August 2006 (7)
  • July 2006 (7)
  • June 2006 (7)
  • May 2006 (7)
  • April 2006 (10)
  • March 2006 (17)

Creative Commons License

Creative Commons License
Creative Commons License

Join Our Facebook Network

NetworkedBlogs
Blog:
ANSWERS For The Faith
Topics:
Culture, Religion, Christianity
 
Join my network

(C) 2016 ANSWERS For The Faith | powered by WordPress | Theme by refueled

