 
SouthEastern Youth Camp

Changing lives in time and for eternity...

  • facebook
  • twitter
  • vimeo
  • 1b2c81446816b0e267bddaa727986db0
  • 72a0ef998cbd8c9fdf36b4d41fc61677

 

  • facebook
  • twitter
  • vimeo
  • 1b2c81446816b0e267bddaa727986db0
  • 72a0ef998cbd8c9fdf36b4d41fc61677

  • Home
  • Blog
  • Camps
      □ Forms for Camp
          ☆ Alabama
              ○ Camper Registration (Online)
              ○ Camp Staff Applications (Online)
          ☆ Virginia
              ○ Print Camper Application
              ○ Print Staff Application
      □ What to Bring
  • SEYC Videos
  • About Us
      □ History
      □ What We Believe
  • Contact Us

  • Alabama Camp dates June 28-July 4, 2015

    Alabama Camp June 28-July 4, 2015

  • SEYC Virginia group picture 2015

    Virginia Camp Dates July 27-31, 2015

  • SEYC Alabama group photo 2014

    SEYC 2014

  • [ecol-camp-]

    ECOL Liberia Camp

Mission Statement: To lead young people to become devoted followers of Christ

SEYC is an outreach of Cross Country Ministries, Inc., a Christian ministry
dedicated to leading people into a dynamic relationship with Jesus Christ.
Campers from many different states attend the camp in Alabama, seeking ways to
follow God.  Speakers, counselors and staff encourage and mentor these students
all week to learn God’s Word, follow Christ daily and show love toward others.
 Every activity and class is oriented toward weaving the gospel message and
life applications from God’s Word.  The week is filled with wonderful moments
of fun, fellowship and faith encounters.  Many campers return year after year
and become great leaders each year at camp.  

Vision Statement: Loving God and loving people will draw young people to desire
the experience of being a disciple of Jesus Christ

SEYC uses camps, retreats, mission trips and media to share the gospel message
to help Christians grow into spiritual maturity through Bible teaching and
engagement. The keynote theme throughout each camp or trip is the unconditional
love of God which draws people to Him.  John 13:35 says, “By this everyone will
know that you are my disciples, if you love one another.” The 2 camps occur
during the summer months while retreats are usually scheduled in the spring.
 Foreign mission camps occur every other year and leaders and staff from
previous camps are invited.   This year, 2015, will be the 26th year for
Alabama and 7th year for Virginia.  Alabama camp is June 28-July 4, 2015.
Virginia Camp is July 27-31, 2015.  The Liberian camp is on hold due to the
ebola outbreak. We will announce dates in the near future for any other foreign
mission trips/camps. 


SEYC- Alabama

(Go ahead and register – disregard the note on the application – we will delete
the note soon.)

A week long youth camp with fantastic games, wonderful Christians speakers and
incredible music.  This is a week you will not want to miss. Held at Worldsong
Missions Place in Cook Springs, Alabama.  Dates for the Alabama camp are June
28-July 4, 2015. Total cost is $250.00. GO to the Camp button and choose
“Alabama”.  Thank you for registering for camp and if you have any questions,
write us at [email protected] 

SEYC – Virginia

This wonderful week in July/August is held at Camp Bethel in Wise, Virginia.
 Set in the hills of the Appalachian Mountain Range, this picturesque
campground is fun-filled and bursting with “God” opportunities.  dates for camp
are July 27-31, 2015.  If you want to attend SEYC-VA, please choose the “Camp”
button, then “Virginia”, and then print an application.  Complete the form and
return it to the address provided.  If you would like to pay online, please
choose the “Donate” or PayPal button and pay the amount of $165.00.  Leave us a
note in the “message” box on PayPal so we can credit your account for the camp
fee.  If you have any questions, please contact us at [email protected] 

Mission Trips

Contact us to participate in one of many mission opportunities.  In the
Appalachian area, SEYC conducts Vacation Bible School, a camp and a Youth Week.
 In Alabama, opportunities are provided through service projects and personal
evangelism training. Each mission trip involves transportation and the
possibility of room and board. Therefore, the cost will differ according to
which trip is offered.  Please contact us at [email protected] to find out more
information and about the trips available each year. 






Seyc © 2015 | All Rights Reserved | Developed by Digital Answers
