Possessing the Treasure

[cropped-1j]

Menu

Skip to content

  • Home
  • Answered Prayer and Praises!
  • Comment Disclaimer & Rules
  • Contact Me
  • Judge Not!
  • Mission
      □ Eschatology
          ☆ Amillennialism
              ○ Dr. Riddlebarger deals with Isaiah 65
              ○ Prophecy Not Intended To Be a Crystal Ball
          ☆ Dispensational Premillennialism
          ☆ Postmillennialsim
          ☆ Preterism
      □ The Doctrines of Grace
          ☆ Charles H. Spurgeon on the Doctrines of Grace
          ☆ T.U.L.I.P.
          ☆ True Love of God
      □ The Gospel
          ☆ Does My Church Really Preach The Gospel?
          ☆ God’s Part and Man’s Part in Salvation
      □ The Philosophy of Monergism
  • My Studies and Books
      □ Judge Not!
      □ Let Us Reason Together
      □ The Abomination of Easy Believism
      □ The Compromised Church
      □ The Marks of Such as Believe in Christ
      □ The Pilgrim’s Heart
      □ The Resurrection
      □ The Sovereignty of God in the Suffering of His People
  • Photography
  • The Parable of the Wicked Mammon

Post navigation

← Older posts

Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to
the Father but through Me.”

Posted on January 12, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    Jesus *said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one
    comes to the Father but through Me.” (John 14:6 NASB)

God’s ways are not man’s ways. What seems right to man is not necessarily right
according to God, who is always right. For instance, God’s Word clearly teaches
the exclusiveness of Jesus as the only way to approach to the Father. There is
only one way, not many ways, which lead to God. That way is Jesus Christ alone.
We must be aware that our culture has become contaminated by religious
relativism. This relativism’s chief virtue is “acceptance” of others as coequal
in our faith no matter what their religion is. This “acceptance” holds as its
primary goal “diversity” with its public philosophy being pluralism. Those
professing Christians who hold to this “philosophy” have compromised the truth
plainly taught in God’s Word. Also, those who have not made this compromise and
refuse to water-down the Gospel are see as misfits and bigots. Continue reading
→

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Religion | Leave a comment

I pray for your maturity in Christ and that you will walk by faith, not by
sight as you seek Him and not empty religion

Posted on January 11, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    4 For indeed while we are in this tent, we groan, being burdened, because
    we do not want to be unclothed but to be clothed, so that what is mortal
    will be swallowed up by life. 5 Now He who prepared us for this very
    purpose is God, who gave to us the Spirit as a pledge.
    6 Therefore, being always of good courage, and knowing that while we are at
    home in the body we are absent from the Lord— 7 for we walk by faith, not
    by sight— 8 we are of good courage, I say, and prefer rather to be absent
    from the body and to be at home with the Lord. 9 Therefore we also have as
    our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to Him. 10 For we
    must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be
    recompensed for his deeds in the body, according to what he has done,
    whether good or bad. (2 Corinthians 5:4-10 NASB)

If you have read very much of what God has had me post here then you know how
much I admire John Bunyan and his fantastic allegory The Pilgrim’s Progress.
Bunyan understood what real Christianity was all about. He was surrounded by
the empty religiosity of the state church of his time and its leaders tried to
silence him through intimidation and imprisonment for refusing to stop
preaching the Gospel. The real Church has always had to contend with false
prophets and false forms. One of the things that Bunyan taught in his allegory
was that the true form of Christianity was lived out by those who walked daily
down a very narrow path sealed by God’s absolute truth. There are many ways off
the path. Many believe they can make their own path. There are many detours and
intersections requiring godly wisdom by the pilgrim in order to remain on the
narrow path. Only the genuine Christian is alive in Christ and they are the
only ones who complete the journey, the pilgrimage, to meet their Saviour in
glory at the end. All other paths lead only to death and destruction.  Continue
reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Religion, Testimony | 1 Comment

Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism
with which I am baptized?

Posted on January 10, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    37 They said to Him, “ Grant that we may sit, one on Your right and one on
    Your left, in Your glory.” 38 But Jesus said to them, “You do not know what
    you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be
    baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?” 39 They said to Him,
    “We are able.” And Jesus said to them, “The cup that I drink you shall
    drink; and you shall be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized.
    40 But to sit on My right or on My left, this is not Mine to give; but it
    is for those for whom it has been prepared.” (Mark 10:37-40 NASB)

The truth, Biblical truth that is, cuts like a sword or the sharpest dagger
ever seen. God’s ways are not Man’s ways or the ways of the world. No, God’s
ways are antithetical to the ways of fallen Men. Many reading this can testify
to losing close friends and having conflict within family groups because God
has quickened them by His grace. Their faith is alive. They are regenerate.
They now can see the truth and are able to obey God. This new life in Christ
belongs to those who have found the narrow gate, which is Christ. They have
passed through in belief and now are on the narrow way which leads to the
Celestial City.

The conflict arises from this new life when it comes to bear on those around
the believer who know not God. They may indeed be religious. They may be
professing Christians, but neither of these things are guarantees of eternal
life. The genuine believer is a possessor of the truth, God has written it on
his or her heart. However, the unregenerate cannot grasp this truth. They see
it as utter foolishness. When the regenerate believer walks in this belief with
it affecting all parts of his or her life the unregenerate react in many ways.
Anger, resentment, skepticism, hostility, and disdain are just a few of the
reactions genuine Christians will encounter when they walk by faith. Continue
reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Christian Suffering, Fear of God, Fear of Man
, God is Faithful, Religion | 1 Comment

Jesus Christ, the Word, is eternal

Posted on January 9, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    1 What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we have seen with
    our eyes, what we have looked at and touched with our hands, concerning the
    Word of Life— 2 and the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify
    and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was
    manifested to us— 3 what we have seen and heard we proclaim to you also, so
    that you too may have fellowship with us; and indeed our fellowship is with
    the Father, and with His Son Jesus Christ. 4 These things we write, so that
    our joy may be made complete. (1 John 1:1-4 NASB)

What sort of Christian message is it that is not Christ centered? A few years
ago I listened to a sermon by Ed Young Jr., Pastor of a church in Grapevine,
TX, that was preached prior to Super Bowl Sunday. The church had advertised
that there would be a drawing and giveaway of Super Bowl tickets at the end of
the service that day. Of course it was nothing more than an “bait and switch”
project to get people to come to church so they might win the tickets. The
stated reason for doing this was so they would hear the gospel preached. I
listened to the sermon and I can tell you right now that the gospel was not
preached. Jesus was mentioned maybe once or twice. The only mention of
salvation in the sermon was Ed saying that God’s goal is to make everyone
joyous and that all we have to do is have Jesus come into our lives so we can
have that joy. There was no mention of sin as being the problem that makes
salvation necessary to avoid the wrath of God. In fact, there was not one
mention of God’s law nor Christ’s horrible death on the cross that atoned for
the sins of God’s elect. All Ed said was that we must have Jesus come into our
lives so we could have joy. He never once mentioned how that takes place. There
was no mention of eternity. His sermon was all geared to living in this life
joyously now rather than in a vain search for happiness. Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Gospel, Religion, Repentance, Salvation, The
Nature of God, Truth | 9 Comments

What is Christian Oneness?

Posted on January 7, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness,
    goodness, faithfulness, 23 gentleness, self- control; against such things
    there is no law. 24 Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the
    flesh with its passions and desires.
    25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. 26 Let us not
    become boastful, challenging one another, envying one another. (Galatians
    5:22-26 NASB)

On one hand, we are commanded in Sacred Scripture to stand firm while holding
to God’s truth as “The Truth” with no exceptions. On the other hand, we are
also commanded in the same Word of God to walk in unity with the whole Body of
Christ. Unfortunately, many today insist on the latter while teaching that in
order to obey it we must totally neglect the former. I read the Bible through
each year totally outside of my studies. I find it very interesting to be
reading through several chapters of a book in the Old or New Testament and come
across passages that I have used in developing a post or a teaching. It is then
that I pause and put those passages into the context of the whole. In this, we
learn to be more careful with God’s Word by keeping everything in its proper
context. Those who excise segments of Sacred Scripture outside of their proper
context run a great danger of error. One example is found in Ephesians 4 in
which Paul calls for the Church to be unified in love while not being divided
over “every wind of doctrine.” Some have used this passage in attempts to
silence our call for the Church to return to adherence to proper doctrine. 
Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Religion | 3 Comments

Our Justification and its fruits

Posted on January 6, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    28 Therefore, since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us
    show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with
    reverence and awe; 29 for our God is a consuming fire. (Hebrews 12:28-29
    NASB)

In my younger days when I was working on my undergraduate degree, I had a
professor who used to work in a major manufacturing company in the US. He used
his experiences there in analogies pertaining to the management topics we were
studying. He used one of his former co-workers there as an example, a bad
example, as he taught us how we should work together toward our common goals,
et cetera. This fellow’s nickname at that company was ‘Yeah-but.’ He told us
that it never failed that in meetings when someone had a solution to an issue
or a concept of a better way to do things, this fellow would always interrupt
and start his diatribe against it with the words, “Yeah, but…!” I had an
encounter with a “religious yeah-but” several months ago here on this blog. I
had written a post dealing with our Justification and this fellow’s response to
it was, “Yeah, but what about those sins you have committed since God saved
you?” It did not matter how I replied to this fellow, he was convinced that,
yes he was saved by grace through faith, but it was his obedience, et cetera,
that kept him there. If he sinned, he lost his salvation and had to be
re-justified I suppose. Is this biblical?  Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Faith, Grace, Justification by Faith,
Religion | 1 Comment

How are Christians to live in the temporal?

Posted on January 5, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    1 Therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also
    with the same purpose, because he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased
    from sin, 2 so as to live the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for
    the lusts of men, but for the will of God. (1 Peter 4:1-2 NASB)

Even though genuine Christians are new creations and have been purchased out of
the world through the redemptive work of Christ on the Cross, as they attempt
to live godly lives in the temporal, they will come under tremendous pressure
to compromise by reverting back to the fleshly way of dealing with life. This
way of reacting to circumstances, both good and bad, has emotions as its
catalyst motivated by a form of self-righteousness that is manifested through
self-exaltation and self-protection. Here we witness ourselves reacting to the
good and bad in a way that is little different than we did prior to our
salvation. We may even attempt to justify our actions by proclaiming that we
are only seeking justice. Pride is the culprit behind this and when we stumble
into these sins it is because we are not spirit-filled and, therefore, not
humble. Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Faith, Grace, Humility, Obedience, Personal
Holiness, Religion, Repentance, Spirit-filled, Spiritual Growth | 1 Comment

When God saves a person, He illuminates them, regenerates them, and transforms
their will

Posted on January 4, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    5 But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart you are storing up
    wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous
    judgment of God, 6 who will render to each person according to his deeds:7
    to those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and
    immortality, eternal life; 8 but to those who are selfishly ambitious and
    do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath and indignation. 9
    There will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil,
    of the Jew first and also of the Greek, 10 but glory and honor and peace to
    everyone who does good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. 11 For
    there is no partiality with God. (Romans 2:5-11 NASB)

It is vital for us to understand the importance of believers hearing and
believing the truth of God. Even though it should be obvious to us, I believe
we take for granted the veracity of Gospel. However, the Word of God, Sacred
Scripture, makes it clear that those who belong to God believe His truth while
those whose eternal destiny is Outer Darkness do not believe the truth, but
have pleasure in unrighteousness. Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Regeneration, Religion | 4 Comments

That a Christian should bear his cross with patience

Posted on January 3, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    33 These things I have spoken to you, so that in Me you may have peace. In
    the world you have tribulation, but take courage; I have overcome the
    world.” (John 16:33 NASB)

The natural man in each of us wants to paint God as a combination of a
spiritual Santa Claus and the Genie from Aladdin’s Lamp. We tie our good works
into how well our lives go. If we do good things then God will surely see to it
that we don’t lose our jobs or we get a great raise each year or our health is
good. Equity or fairness is our cry. Just look at our society. Even though it
isn’t a reality everyone seems to demand that no one be offended or that
everyone be treated fairly. This has bled over into the Church in the 21st
Century.

Christians who are driven by their flesh are very superstitious. These folks
are the suckers that the hucksters of the Word Faith movement prey upon. These
folks give their money away to evangelists and faith healers hoping to be
blessed. I remember when I lived in Tulsa in the mid-1980s that Oral and
Richard Roberts were preaching “seed-faith” theology. That meant they asked
people to send in their money to show their faith and in return God would bless
them by multiplying their seed. In other words, send in some money and we
guarantee you that God will give back to you even more. Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Religion, Sanctification | 1 Comment

What is the Unpardonable Sin?

Posted on January 2, 2016 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    28 “ Truly I say to you, all sins shall be forgiven the sons of men, and
    whatever blasphemies they utter; 29 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy
    Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin” — 30 because
    they were saying, “He has an unclean spirit.” (Mark 3:28-30 NASB)

I have been a Christian for many years. Before God saved me when I was 34 years
old in January 1986, I had been an unsaved Church member since I had been a
child having made a profession of faith when I was 9 years old in 1960.  During
all of that time, I am sure I have heard dozens of different teachings on the
Unpardonable Sin. What is it? I heard one preacher say that only first century
Jews could commit this sin. Is that right? Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Religion, The Unpardonable Sin | 1 Comment

The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord

Posted on December 30, 2015 by Mike Ratliff



    In Psalm 111, the prophet giveth thanks to the Lord for His merciful works
    toward His Church. He also declareth wherein true wisdom and right
    knowledge consistith.

    Psalm 111
    1 Praise ye the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the
    assembly and Congregation of the just.
    2 The works of the Lord are great, and ought to be sought out of all them
    that love them.
    3 His work is beautiful and glorious, and his righteousness endureth
    forever.
    4 He hath made his wonderful works to be had in remembrance: the Lord is
    merciful and full of compassion.
    5 He hath given a portion unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful
    of his covenant.
    6 He hath shewed to his people the power of his works in giving unto them
    the heritage of the heathen.
    7 The works of his hands are truth and judgment: all his statutes are true.
    8 They are established forever and ever, and are done in truth and equity.
    9 He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant
    forever: holy and fearful is his Name.
    10 The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord: all they that observe
    them, have good understanding: his praise endureth forever. – (Geneva Bible
    Psalm 111)

The prophet declares that he will praise God both privately and openly and from
his heart that he has consecrated wholly and only to Him.

He professes that God’s works are sufficient cause wherefore we should praise
Him, but chiefly His benefits towards His Church.

God has given to His Church all that was necessary for them and will do still
more for His covenant’s sake.

As God promised to take the care of His Church; so in effect does He declare
Himself just and true in His government of the same.

They only are wise that fear God, and none have understanding, but those that
obey His Words which are His commandments.

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Fear of God, Religion | 1 Comment

The fruit of the fear of God

Posted on December 29, 2015 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    13 The conclusion, when all has been heard, is: fear God and keep His
    commandments, because this applies to every person. 14 For God will bring
    every act to judgment, everything which is hidden, whether it is good or
    evil. (Ecclesiastes 12:13-14 NASB)

The total lack of the fear of God is what marks the ungodly. (Romans 3:18) On
the other hand, genuine believers in scripture are described as those who do
fear Him. Tragically, when moral issues between professing Christians and the
unchurched are compared there is very little difference. There is the same
level of divorce, adultery, pornography, dishonesty; et cetera in both groups.
This should not be so. Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Compromised Gospel, Fear of God, Religion | 3
Comments

Are you willing to suffer in the flesh for Christ’s sake?

Posted on December 28, 2015 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    17 So this I say, and affirm together with the Lord, that you walk no
    longer just as the Gentiles also walk, in the futility of their mind, 18
    being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God
    because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their
    heart; 19 and they, having become callous, have given themselves over to
    sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. 20
    But you did not learn Christ in this way, 21 if indeed you have heard Him
    and have been taught in Him, just as truth is in Jesus, 22 that, in
    reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self, which
    is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit, 23 and that you
    be renewed in the spirit of your mind, 24 and put on the new self, which in
    the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the
    truth. (Ephesians 4:17-24 NASB)

From the moment the Gospel was first preached, it has been under attack.
Impostors have come along pretending to be genuine Christians or preachers or
teachers and they have led many to destruction. Part of my planning for this
post was research into The Down-Grade Controversy that Charles Spurgeon was
engaged in for many years until his death. When I started this blog back in
2006 a group of bloggers resisted nearly everything I and the rest of the CRN
team did. Many of them were part of the Christian Restoration Movement.
Continue reading →

Posted in Apostasy, Christian Authenticity, Religion

The testimonies of Simeon and Anna

Posted on December 27, 2015 by Mike Ratliff


by Mike Ratliff

    33 And His father and mother were amazed at the things which were being
    said about Him. 34 And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary His mother,
    “Behold, this Child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel,
    and for a sign to be opposed— 35 and a sword will pierce even your own
    soul—to the end that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed.” (Luke
    2:33-35 NASB)

Apostates, false teachers, those who seek redemption via religion, tares, and
goats, have overrun the Church in our time. Since the beginning these people
have been part of the visible Church, but now it appears that they have
captured it and hold it prisoner. Much of the blame for this belongs to those
who should be coming of age to lead the Church who have been compromised by
humanistic teachings that make being a minister a “career move.” As a result
these people are leading their churches further and further away from the real
Jesus to follow one of their own making. Continue reading →

Posted in Christian Authenticity, Faith, Faithfulness, Religion | 3 Comments

Post navigation

← Older posts
The Purpose of Possessing the Treasure is to be spiritual food for the
suffering Church

Great is the Lord!

μέγας ο κύριος και αινετός σφόδρα και της μεγαλωσύνης αυτού ουκ έστι πέρας
(Psalms 145:3 LXX)

Great is the LORD, and praiseworthy exceedingly, and of His greatness there is
no end!

Living the Transformed Life

Παρακαλῶ οὖν ὑμᾶς, ἀδελφοί, διὰ τῶν οἰκτιρμῶν τοῦ θεοῦ παραστῆσαι τὰ σώματα
ὑμῶν θυσίαν ζῶσαν ἁγίαν εὐάρεστον τῷ θεῷ, τὴν λογικὴν λατρείαν ὑμῶν· καὶ μὴ
συσχηματίζεσθε τῷ αἰῶνι τούτῳ, ἀλλὰ μεταμορφοῦσθε τῇ ἀνακαινώσει τοῦ νοὸς εἰς
τὸ δοκιμάζειν ὑμᾶς τί τὸ θέλημα τοῦ θεοῦ, τὸ ἀγαθὸν καὶ εὐάρεστον καὶ τέλειον.
(Romans 12:1-2 NA27)

Therefore, I urge you brothers through the compassions of God to present your
bodies as living, holy sacrifices, well pleasing to God, which is your
spiritual service. And do not be conformed to this age, but be transformed by
the renewing of your mind that you may discern the will of God, that which is
good and well pleasing and perfect.

Come Soon Lord Jesus!

Λέγει ὁ μαρτυρῶν ταῦτα· ναί, ἔρχομαι ταχύ. Ἀμήν, ἔρχου κύριε Ἰησοῦ. (Revelation
22:20 NA27)

Says the one testifying these, yes, I come quickly. Amen, come Lord Jesus!

    January 2016
S  M  T  W  T  F  S
<< Dec       
               1  2
3  4  5  6  7  8  9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31  

RSS Possessing the Treasure

  • Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes
    to the Father but through Me.”
  • I pray for your maturity in Christ and that you will walk by faith, not by
    sight as you seek Him and not empty religion
  • Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the
    baptism with which I am baptized?
  • Jesus Christ, the Word, is eternal
  • What is Christian Oneness?
  • Our Justification and its fruits
  • How are Christians to live in the temporal?
  • When God saves a person, He illuminates them, regenerates them, and
    transforms their will
  • That a Christian should bear his cross with patience
  • What is the Unpardonable Sin?

RSS Daily Verse from the English Standard Version

  • Philippians 3:13-14

RSS Charles Spurgeon’s Faith Checkbook

  • Faith's Checkbook by C.H. Spurgeon

RSS Stand to Reason

  • Challenge: The Gospel Writers Were Just Educated Storytellers January 12,
    2016 Amy Hall
  • Give Greg a Call Today January 12, 2016 Melinda Penner
  • The Voice of God and 1 Corinthians 14 January 11, 2016 Gregory Koukl
  • Where Do Jehovah’s Witnesses Get Their Name? January 9, 2016 Tim Barnett
  • Links Mentioned on the 1/08/16 Show January 8, 2016 Amy Hall
  • Letting You Know About a Great Resource: Credo Courses January 7, 2016 Tim
    Barnett
  • Links Mentioned on the 1/06/16 Show January 6, 2016 Amy Hall
  • The Deity of Christ and the Reality of the Trinity January 6, 2016 Gregory
    Koukl
  • When Homosexuals Show up at Church January 5, 2016 Alan Shlemon

RSS Alpha and Omega Mnistries

  • Finishing Up the Hamza Tzortzis/Adnan Rashid Video, About 20 Minutes with
    Wael Ibrahim, a Twitter Reply to RonOFS January 7, 2016 James White
  • Continued Response to Adnan Rashid and Hamza Tzortzis on the Reliability of
    the Bible (and Qur’an) January 6, 2016 James White
  • Teaching Children to Love and Know the Truth January 6, 2016 Jeff Downs
  • Randal Rauser and then Hamza Tzortzis and Adnan Rashid on the Bible January
    5, 2016 James White
  • OT & NT Books January 5, 2016 Jeff Downs
  • Youth Apologetics Class (Classical Education Style) January 4, 2016 Jeff
    Downs
  • They Went Out from Us: Jahaziel’s Excuses for Abandoning the Faith December
    30, 2015 James White
  • Roman Catholic Apologists: an Hour Long Phone Call in Response to Rome’s
    Claims December 29, 2015 James White
  • Lots of Topics and Articles on Today’s Dividing Line December 23, 2015
    James White
  • Troubling Thoughts from Dr. Jeffress About ISIS, Then Back to Reviewing
    Wael Ibrahim December 23, 2015 James White

Rejoicing in Suffering

Νῦν χαίρω ἐν τοῖς παθήμασιν ὑπὲρ ὑμῶν καὶ ἀνταναπληρῶ τὰ ὑστερήματα τῶν θλίψεων
τοῦ Χριστοῦ ἐν τῇ σαρκί μου ὑπὲρ τοῦ σώματος αὐτοῦ, ὅ ἐστιν ἡ ἐκκλησία, ἧς
ἐγενόμην ἐγὼ διάκονος κατὰ τὴν οἰκονομίαν τοῦ θεοῦ τὴν δοθεῖσάν μοι εἰς ὑμᾶς
πληρῶσαι τὸν λόγον τοῦ θεοῦ, τὸ μυστήριον τὸ ἀποκεκρυμμένον ἀπὸ τῶν αἰώνων καὶ
ἀπὸ τῶν γενεῶν – νῦν δὲ ἐφανερώθη τοῖς ἁγίοις αὐτοῦ (Colossians 1:24-26 NA27)

Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up
what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the
church, of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God that
was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known, the mystery
hidden for ages and generations but now revealed to his saints. (Colossians
1:24-26 ESV)

The way of escape

"To believe that He will preserve us is, indeed, a means of preservation. God
will certainly preserve us, and make a way of escape for us out of the
temptation, should we fall. We are to pray for what God has already promised.
Our requests are to be regulated by His promises and commands. Faith embraces
the promises and so finds relief." - John Owen

How to be free from bondage to our flesh and temptation

"If we do not abide in prayer, we will abide in temptation. Let this be one
aspect of our daily intercession: 'God, preserve my soul, and keep my heart and
all its ways so that I will not be entangled.' When this is true in our lives,
a passing temptation will not overcome us. We will remain free while others lie
in bondage." - John Owen
Use OpenDNS

Archives

  • January 2016
  • December 2015
  • November 2015
  • October 2015
  • September 2015
  • August 2015
  • July 2015
  • June 2015
  • May 2015
  • April 2015
  • March 2015
  • February 2015
  • January 2015
  • December 2014
  • November 2014
  • October 2014
  • September 2014
  • August 2014
  • July 2014
  • June 2014
  • May 2014
  • April 2014
  • March 2014
  • February 2014
  • January 2014
  • December 2013
  • November 2013
  • October 2013
  • September 2013
  • August 2013
  • July 2013
  • June 2013
  • May 2013
  • April 2013
  • March 2013
  • February 2013
  • January 2013
  • December 2012
  • September 2012
  • August 2012
  • July 2012
  • June 2012
  • May 2012
  • April 2012
  • March 2012
  • February 2012
  • January 2012
  • December 2011
  • November 2011
  • October 2011
  • September 2011
  • August 2011
  • July 2011
  • June 2011
  • May 2011
  • April 2011
  • March 2011
  • February 2011
  • January 2011
  • December 2010
  • November 2010
  • October 2010
  • September 2010
  • August 2010
  • July 2010
  • June 2010
  • May 2010
  • April 2010
  • March 2010
  • February 2010
  • January 2010
  • December 2009
  • November 2009
  • October 2009
  • September 2009
  • August 2009
  • July 2009
  • June 2009
  • May 2009
  • April 2009
  • March 2009
  • February 2009
  • January 2009
  • December 2008
  • November 2008
  • October 2008
  • September 2008
  • August 2008
  • July 2008
  • June 2008
  • May 2008
  • April 2008
  • March 2008
  • February 2008
  • January 2008
  • December 2007
  • November 2007
  • October 2007
  • September 2007
  • August 2007
  • July 2007
  • June 2007
  • May 2007
  • April 2007
  • March 2007
  • February 2007
  • January 2007
  • December 2006
  • November 2006
  • October 2006
  • September 2006
  • August 2006
  • July 2006
  • June 2006
  • May 2006
  • April 2006
  • March 2006
  • February 2006
  • January 2006

Meta

  • Register
  • Log in
  • Entries RSS
  • Comments RSS
  • WordPress.com

About me

[eebf40d9de]My name is Mike Ratliff. I am a δοῦλος (slave) of the Κύριον
᾿Ιησοῦν Χριστόν (Lord Jesus Christ.) I have been a Bible teacher since the late
1980's. I am currently learning Koine Greek, which I began in 1992 and will
continue to do so until the Lord takes me home. I am Reformed in my theology
because I recognize that God is Sovereign over all things. I write these posts
as God directs. I am also part of the discernment team at Christian Research
Network.

OTHERS MAY, YOU CANNOT

by G. D. Watson

If anyone wishes to come after Me, he must deny himself, and take up his cross
and follow Me. For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it; but whoever
loses his life for My sake will find it. Matthew 16:24-25

If God has called you to be truly like Jesus in all your spirit, He will draw
you into a life of crucifixion and humility. He will put on you such demands of
obedience that you will not be allowed to follow other Christians. In many
ways, He seems to let other good people do things which He will not let you do.

Others who seem to be very religious and useful may push themselves, pull
wires, and scheme to carry out their plans, but you cannot. If you attempt it,
you will meet with such failure and rebuke from the Lord as to make you sorely
penitent.

Others can brag about themselves, their work, their successes, their writings,
but the Holy Spirit will not allow you to do any such thing. If you begin to do
so, He will lead you into some deep mortification that will make you despise
yourself and all your good works.

Others will be allowed to succeed in making great sums of money, or having a
legacy left to them, or in having luxuries, but God may supply you only on a
day-to-day basis, because He wants you to have something far better than gold,
a helpless dependence on Him and His unseen treasury.

The Lord may let others be honored and put forward while keeping you hidden in
obscurity because He wants to produce some choice, fragrant fruit for His
coming glory, which can only be produced in the shade.

God may let others be great, but keep you small. He will let others do a work
for Him and get the credit, but He will make you work and toil without knowing
how much you are doing. Then, to make your work still more precious, He will
let others get the credit for the work which you have done; this to teach you
the message of the Cross, humility, and something of the value of being cloaked
with His nature.

The Holy Spirit will put a strict watch on you, and with a jealous love rebuke
you for careless words and feelings, or for wasting your time, which other
Christians never seem distressed over.

So make up your mind that God is an infinite Sovereign and has a right to do as
He pleases with His own, and that He may not explain to you a thousand things
which may puzzle your reason in His dealings with you.

God will take you at your word. If you absolutely sell yourself to be His
slave, He will wrap you up in a jealous love and let other people say and do
many things that you cannot. Settle it forever; you are to deal directly with
the Holy Spirit, He is to have the privilege of tying your tongue or chaining
your hand or closing your eyes in ways which others are not dealt with.
However, know this great secret of the Kingdom: When you are so completely
possessed with the Living God that you are, in your secret heart, pleased and
delighted over this peculiar, personal, private, jealous guardianship and
management of the Holy Spirit over your life, you will have found the vestibule
of heaven, the high calling of God.

NA27 – Greek New Testament Copyright Information

Novum Testamentum Graece (Nestle-Aland), 27th edition, © German Bible Society,
Stuttgart 1992

NA28 – Greek New Testament Copyright Information

Greek Bible text from: Novum Testamentum Graece, 28th revised edition, Edited
by Barbara Aland and others, © 2012 Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft, Stuttgart.

English Standard Version Bible Copyright

Scripture quotations marked ESV are from the ESV "Bible (The Holy Bible,
English Standard Version¨), copyright © 2001 by Crossway Bibles, a publishing
ministry of Good News Publishers. Used by permission. All rights reserved.

New American Standard Bible Copyright

Scripture quotations marked NASB are taken from the New American Standard
Bible®, Copyright © 1960, 1962, 1963, 1968, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1975, 1977, 1995
by The Lockman Foundation Used by permission. (www.Lockman.org)
Search [                    ] [Search]
Recent Posts

  • Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes
    to the Father but through Me.”
  • I pray for your maturity in Christ and that you will walk by faith, not by
    sight as you seek Him and not empty religion
  • Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the
    baptism with which I am baptized?
  • Jesus Christ, the Word, is eternal
  • What is Christian Oneness?

Top Posts

  • I pray for your maturity in Christ and that you will walk by faith, not by
    sight as you seek Him and not empty religion
  • Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the
    baptism with which I am baptized?
  • The Four Cups of Wine of Passover
  • Jesus Christ, the Word, is eternal
  • Jesus said to him, “I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes
    to the Father but through Me."
  • What My Obedience to God Costs Other People
  • What Does it Mean to Overcome the World?
  • The Dangers of Spiritual Formation and Spiritual Disciplines
  • Three Days and Nights In The Heart of the Earth
  • What is the Role of the Church in the World?

Recent Comments

[4e26] Truth2Freedom on I pray for your maturity in Ch…
[a2c8] charisse on Jesus Christ, the Word, is…
[4e26] Truth2Freedom on Are you able to drink the cup…
[234f] Marion Tolman on Jesus Christ, the Word, is…
[8aff] selah on Jesus Christ, the Word, is…

Bible Study

  • Bible Study Web App
  • Codex Sinaiticus
  • ESV Online
  • German Bible Society
  • Olive Tree Bible Study App
  • The Apostolic Bible

Blogroll

  • Absolute Dominion
  • All for His Glory
  • All Truth is God's Truth
  • Joni and Friends
  • Visit www.esv.org to learn about the ESV Bible

Christian music

  • Dennis Jernigan
  • Jeremy Camp
  • Keith & Kristyn Getty
  • Mark Harris
  • Steve Camp
  • The Cyber Hymnal
  • Tonya Betz

Christian Research Resource

  • Christian Research Network
  • ESV Study Bible
  • Ligonier Ministries Blog
  • STEM – Sound Teaching on Electronic Media

Christian Satire

  • The Sacred Sandwich
  • Truthinator's Blog

Churches

  • Bethel Baptist Church of Owasso, Oklahoma
  • Mission Road Bible Church – Prairie Village, Kansas
  • New Geneva Orthodox Presbyterian Church of Idaho Falls, Idaho
  • Park Woods Presbyterian Church of Overland Park, Kansas
  • Providence Presbyterian Church OPC of Madison Wisconsin

Devotional

  • Quotes and Poems

Devotions

  • Spurgeon's Daily Meditations

Discernment

  • Absolute Dominion
  • Apostasy Watch
  • Apprising Ministries
  • Better Than Sacrifice
  • Bible Bulletin Board
  • Christian Research Network
  • Dead Theologians
  • Discern the Time
  • Fruitful Musings
  • Herescope
  • Lane's Blog
  • Reflections on the Truth in a Postmodern world
  • SharperIron
  • Sola Sisters
  • Sound Clear
  • The Great Apostasy
  • Voice of Truth
  • Watcher's Lamp
  • Wolf Tracks
  • Wretched with Todd Friel

Doctrine/Theology

  • A Puritan's Mind
  • All for His Glory
  • Baptist Bible Hour
  • Bible Bulletin Board
  • Bread and Circuses
  • Calvinism Index
  • Calvinist Gadfly
  • Camp on This by Steve Camp
  • Dead Theologians
  • Grace To You
  • Joni and Friends
  • Ligonier Ministries
  • Living by Faith or Dying in Unbelief
  • Matthew Hoffman
  • Monergism
  • Monergism Books
  • Moore to the Point
  • New Covenant Theology
  • Prewrath Rapture
  • Psalm 45 Publications
  • Reformation Theology
  • Reformed Baptist Fellowship
  • Sound Clear
  • Strange Baptist Fire
  • The Reformed Reader
  • The Riddleblog
  • The World from our Window
  • Third Millennium Ministries
  • Triablogue
  • Turretin Fan
  • Understanding the Gospel
  • White Horse Inn

eBook

  • YUDU eBook Publishing

Evangelism

  • HeartCry Missionary Society
  • Joni and Friends
  • Witnessing Encouragment

Friends

  • The Hope I Have
  • Underdog Theology

Friends Blogs

  • Absolute Dominion
  • Baptist-Girl
  • Christian New Birth
  • Comfort My People
  • Conversations in Calvinism
  • Cypha's Circle
  • Fruitful Musings
  • Go Share Your Faith!
  • Green Baggins
  • IrishCalvinist.com
  • JP's Mind
  • Las 5 Solas
  • My Button-Down Mind
  • Persecuted Church along side of our Church
  • Sola Sisters
  • Solid Food for Fellow Pilgrims
  • Sound Clear
  • SPIRITUAL OASIS By Bill Williams
  • The Aspiring Theologian
  • The Light Hearted Calvinst
  • The Shepherd’s Scrapbook
  • Thus Saith the Lord
  • Total Transformation
  • Truth Matters
  • Watwuzithinkin?
  • Wendy Walking Free
  • Whispers in the Garden
  • WildernessVoice
  • Woman at the well

Pilgrimage

  • sixsteps

Purpose Driven Deception

  • Daniel's Place (Reformata et semper reformanda)

spirituality

  • All for His Glory

Stats

  • Site Meter

Mission Pages

  • Answered Prayer and Praises!
  • Comment Disclaimer & Rules
  • Contact Me
  • Judge Not!
  • Mission
      □ Eschatology
          ☆ Amillennialism
              ○ Dr. Riddlebarger deals with Isaiah 65
              ○ Prophecy Not Intended To Be a Crystal Ball
          ☆ Dispensational Premillennialism
          ☆ Postmillennialsim
          ☆ Preterism
      □ The Doctrines of Grace
          ☆ Charles H. Spurgeon on the Doctrines of Grace
          ☆ T.U.L.I.P.
          ☆ True Love of God
      □ The Gospel
          ☆ Does My Church Really Preach The Gospel?
          ☆ God’s Part and Man’s Part in Salvation
      □ The Philosophy of Monergism
  • My Studies and Books
      □ Judge Not!
      □ Let Us Reason Together
      □ The Abomination of Easy Believism
      □ The Compromised Church
      □ The Marks of Such as Believe in Christ
      □ The Pilgrim’s Heart
      □ The Resurrection
      □ The Sovereignty of God in the Suffering of His People
  • Photography
  • The Parable of the Wicked Mammon

Contact me!

Contact Mike Ratliff

Blog Stats

  • 1,707,619 hits

Categories

Categories[Select Category                              ]
Blog at WordPress.com. | The Able Theme.
Follow

Follow “Possessing the Treasure”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 2,248 other followers

[Sign me up]

Build a website with WordPress.com
[                    ] Post to []
Cancel [Reblog Post] 
[b]
