[pbyseal1]

  Presbytery of Utah

  • Home
  • Churches
  • Calendar
  • Documents
  • Directory
  • Minutes
  • Links
  • Contact

  • Presbyterian Community Church, 206 East 200 North, Preston, ID, 83263
  • <a href=https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ogden-Japanese-Christian-Church/
    113489325338103>Ogden Japanese Christian Church, 580 23rd Street, Ogden, UT
    84401</a>
  • <a href=https://www.facebook.com/pages/Japanese-Church-of-Christ/
    115156895170075>Japanese Church of Christ, 268 West !00 South, Salt Lake
    City, UT 84101</a>
  • <a href=http://www.afpres.org>American Fork Community Church, 75 North 100
    East, American Fork, UT 84003</a>
  • <a href=http://www.cottonwoodpres.org>Cottonwood Presbyterian Church, 1580
    East Vine St., Salt Lake City, UT 84121</a>
  • <a href=https://www.facebook.com/pages/Westvale-Presbyterian-Church/
    128281457254014?rf=117583454933807>Westvale Presbyterian Church, 3610 South
    4400 West, West Valley City, UT 84120</a>
  • <a href=http://www.brighampresby.org>Community Presbyterian Church, 122
    East 300 South, Brigham City, UT 84302</a>
  • <a href=http://www.mtopres.org>Mt. Olympus Presbyterian Church, 3280 East
    3900 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84124</a>
  • <a href=http://www.trinityogden.org>Trinity Presbyterian Church, 140 N.
    Tyler Avenue, Ogden, UT 84404</a>
  • <a href=http://www.firstpreslogan.org>First Presbyterian Church, 178 W.
    Center Street, Logan, UT 84321</a>
  • <a href=https://www.facebook.com/pages/Delta-Community-Presbyterian-Church/
    115447155147789>Community Presbyterian Church, 100 South 200 West, Delta,
    UT 84624</a>
  • <a href=http://www.cogpc.org>Community of Grace Presbyterian Church, 2015
    East Newcastle Drive, Sandy, UT 84093</a>
  • <a href=http://www.cedarpres.org>Community Presbyterian Church, 122 N.
    Wedgewood Lane, Cedar City, UT 84121</a>
  • <a href=http://www.valleycommunitypc.org>Valley Community Presbyterian
    Church, 54 East. 200 South, Richfield, UT 84701</a>
  • <a href=http://www.firstpresbyterianogden.org>First Presbyterian Church,
    880 28th St., Ogden, UT 84403</a>
  • <a href=http://www.gspc.org>Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, 611 North
    2450 East, St. George, UT 84771</a>
  • <a href=http://www.wpcslc.org>Wasatch Presbyterian Church, 1626 South 1700
    East, Salt Lake City, UT 84108</a>
  • <a href=http://www.springvillechurch.org>Springville Community Church, 245
    South 200 East, Springville, UT 84663</a>
  • <a href=http://www.kpcutah.com>Korean Presbyterian Church of Utah 1945 S.
    Redwood Road, Salt Lake City, UT 84104</a>
  • <a href=http://www.fpcslc.org>First Presbyterian Church, 12 C Street, Salt
    Lake City, UT 84103</a>


About Us.

The Presbytery of Utah is the administrative hub of 22 congregations of the
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). It is one of the 172 presbyteries in the
Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) which cover the continental 48 states, Alaska,
Hawaii and Puerto Rico. 21 of the 22 congregations in the Presbytery of Utah
are in the State of Utah and one is just across the Utah-Idaho border in
Preston, Idaho. The congregations stretch from Preston, ID in the north to St.
George, UT in the southwest corner of the state. The purpose of the Presbytery
is expressed in its mission statement: The Presbytery of Utah will provide
leadership and resources resulting in healthy and growing congregations.

The Presbytery is served by 4 staff persons: interim executive presbyter,
stated clerk, treasurer, and administrative assistant. They are all part-time.
The staff operates out of the office which is located in an office building
owned by a member of First Presbyterian Church of Salt Lake City. Teaching
elders, ruling elders and members of congregations serve in rotating terms on
the Coordinating Council, Committee on Ministry, Committee on Preparation for
Ministry, Nominating Committee and Permanent Judicial Commission.

Presbytery of Utah News.

The Presbytery of Utah invites you to the Service of Installation for Reverend
Derek Forbes as Associate Pastor for Logan First Presbyterian Church. The
service will begin at 4:00 p.m. on October 11, 2015 at the church. Address:
First Presbyterian Church, 178 West Center Street, Logan, Utah



We are looking forward to great fellowship and food (and some business, of
course) at the Stated Fall Meeting of the Presbytery of Utah on Saturday,
October 24, 2015 beginning at 10:00 a.m.. The Korean Presbyterian Church of
Utah congregation will be our hosts in their new building at 1945 South Redwood
Road.




Facebook.

    Presbytery of Utah

    PC(USA) News.

Home | Churches | Calendar | Documents | Directory | Minutes | Links | Contact


