
Download Acrobat version

                              Christ and Culture

                         by Klaas Schilder, 1890-1952.
                      Translation of Christus en Cultuur
                              ISBN 0-88756-008-3

                    1. Christianity and Culture. I. Title.
                        BR115.C8S313 261.5 C77-002118-2

                  Copyright© G van Rongen and W. Helder, 1977

                              A note on the text

    This translation was published by Premier Printing LTD of Winnipeg,
    Manitoba, Canada. It has been released on the World Wide Web for
    noncommercial use by permission of G. van Rongen and W. Helder. Conversion
    of the printed text to ASCII for the Web, courtesy of Dan Weise.

    The translation is by G. van Rongen and W. Helder.

    This text is was obtained using OCR software on scans of a photocopy of a
    marked-up copy the book, which was set in some typeface similar to
    Souvenir. Italic characters were hard to distinguish from roman even in the
    original book. We used spelling checker programs to find and correct the
    OCR errors. In the process various British spellings and idiosyncratic
    hyphenations got converted to the forms preferred by whatever spelling
    checker was in use at the time. Undoubtedly other errors remain.

    The entire book is in this single file for the sake of those who wish to
    retrieve it with one access to print and read at their leisure. We have
    inserted horizontal lines and page numbers to indicate the pagination of
    the book. In the original there were endnotes only. We changed these to
    footnotes for the Web version, and in the present file have retained both.

    ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

                                    Preface

Almost twenty-five years ago, on March 23, 1952, the LORD took unto Himself His
servant Klaas Schilder. The present translation of one of his works thus
appears at a very appropriate time.

Christ and Culture is the English translation of Schilder's Christus en Cultuur
. The original version of this publication was issued in 1932 under the title
"Jezus Christus en het cultuurleven": it was included in Jezus Christus en het
menschenleven, a collection of contributions by various authors. In 1947 it was
published separately as Christus en Cultuur: a reprint followed in 1953.

The author was born on December 19, 1890, in Kampen, The Netherlands. In his
native city he later studied at the Theologische School of De Gereformeerde
Kerken in Nederland, from which he graduated cum laude in 1914. After having
served as minister in several congregations, he was in 1933 awarded the
doctoral degree summa cum laude at the Friedrich-Alexander University,
Erlangen, Germany. His dissertation was entitled Zur Begriffspeschichte des
"Paradoxon," mit besonderen Berucksichtigung Calvins und des
Nach-Kierkegaardschen "Paradoxon." In the same year he was appointed Professor
of Systematic Theology at the Kampen Seminary, which post he held until his
death in 1952.

Dr. K. Schilder wrote numerous books and articles. His trilogy Christus in Zijn
lijden became internationally known especially in its English version, Christ
on Trial (1938). He regularly contributed to the weekly De Reformatie ever
since it began publication in 1920, becoming one of its editors in 1924: from
1935 on, he was its only editor. The strong stand that he took, not only in
theological and ecclesiastical matters but also over against the anti-christian
philosophy of National-Socialism, led to his arrest by the Nazis in August,
1940 Soon after his release he was forced to go into hiding, for he was among
those wanted by the German occupying forces. He remained in hiding almost until
the end of the Second World War.

Twice, in 1939 and in 1947, Schilder visited the United States of America. The
return voyage in 1947 provided him with the opportunity to revise and expand
his above-mentioned 1932 essay. The preface to the new edition of Christus en
Cultuur was signed and dated: "On board s.s. Veendam, August 24, 1947." This
Dutch publication attracted attention also in the English-speaking world,
particularly in the U.S.A.: for example, Schilder's ideas, together with

those of Aurelius Augustine, John Calvin, and Abraham Kuyper, were thoroughly
discussed by Henry R. Van Til in his The Calvinistic Concept of Culture (1959;
repr. 1972). A Japanese translation by Professor Y. Yamanaka of Kansaigakuin,
University, Takarazuka, Japan, was published in 1974.

The present English translation was made possible by the kind permission of
Mrs. A.J. Schilder-Walter and the cooperation of the original publisher, T.
Wever, Franeker, The Netherlands.

May the LORD bless this publication and use it in the battle for true culture.

Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. -- G. van Rongen

Hamilton, Ontario, Canada -- W. Helder

December, 1976
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
                                       
                              Christ and Culture

                                      1.

"Christ and culture" -- this theme has occupied the minds of many as long as
Christianity has had a place in this world. Rather, it did so already many
centuries before. For the name "Christ" is nothing but a translation of the
word "Messiah." Even during the days of the Old Testament, when the Messiah was
still expected, men thought, struggled, and prophesied about as well as
rebelled against the "Messiah" (Christ) and "culture." If what we are about to
write is true, then this age-old theme will continue to strain the attention in
joy as well as in sorrow until the end of time: The complete solution also of
this problem will not be reached in the course of time but is reserved for the
day that will put an end to time. It will not be obtained in the way of
evolution but along that of the catastrophic parousia of Christ Himself.
Therefore the great joy and the deep sorrow about the final outcome of the
struggle concerning Christ and culture can be expected at the end of the ages.
Here one utters two heavily charged words: heaven -- and hell.

                                      2.

The above already makes it clear that the theme which we are broaching here
must not be inserted in the list of subjects that the hasty heathen takes into
his sphere of interest before and the careful Christian only after the academic
discussion thereof. The problem of the relation between Christ and culture
immediately concerns the fundamental questions of Christian thought and action.
Therefore a Christian must continually contend with it. The one who does not
touch it neglects his direct calling. The definition of a Christian's life-task
as it is given in Lord's Day 12 of the Heidelberg Catechism and in which a
Christian is considered as a prophet, a priest, and a king, is so ample and
comprehensive that the matter of the relation between Christ (and the
Christian) on the one hand, and cultural life on the other, is under discussion
as soon as the question is raised how the pertinent words in this section of
the Catechism must be interpreted. For this reason in particular, a confessing
Christian is not allowed, before entering into the cultural struggle, to wait
quietly (ad calendas graecas) for academic resolutions regarding the cultural
problem. Neither has he permission to wait for what is more and more becoming
their substitute, the resolutions or conclusions of a conference.

For life builds up the academy, but the academy does not build up life. At best
it can think about life. The same way the problem of the right appreciation of
culture or that of the evaluation of a concrete situation which a Christian
comes across or has to help create in a given cultural phase, must never be
reduced to a so-called merely academic matter. Life precedes the academy:
primum vivere, deinde philosophari. Everyone has to deal with a temporally and
locally determined phase of cultural life. At his birth he is thrown into the
midst of it, and no one is able to withdraw from it, not even for one single
day, supposing that he would be allowed to do so. Man cannot isolate himself,
though he may flee into a cloister that does not distill liqueur or anything
like that, nor helps to fill the pages of a magazine.

                                      3.

Why is this problem such a difficult one? Many things could be said in
explanation. We shall mention a few points only.


a. One of the main reasons is that the opinions so widely diverge. Not only in
what we sometimes too abstractly call the world, but also in what -- again we
must say, often in too abstract a way -- is called the church, we see the
struggle between opinions that are very much each other's opposites. There is
nothing unusual in this. Those who really adhere to the authentic philosophy of
pure materialism will have a view of culture that completely differs from that
of people who think along the lines of metaphysical universalism. Those who
think that history is linear set up a construction that is completely different
from that of the man who sees history as a cycle. The theist and the pantheist
are one another's opponents, also in their conception and appreciation of
culture. A Lutheran's evaluation -- if only he is loyal to Martin Luther --
will differ from that of a Calvinist; that of a pessimist is not the same as
that of an optimist. A Platonist differs from an Aristotelian, a Spinozist from
a Cartesian, a Kantian from a pupil of Fichte. Even among the Romantics, Goethe
does not agree with Novalis, nor Schleiermacher with the Schlegel brothers. We
did not even mention Bismarck and Rosenberg, Otto and Walt Whitman, or the
Buddhist of one sect or another. The differences which divide the philosophers
will influence the theologians and the ordinary church members. It is only a
dream if someone believes that "the cultural idea" is a sort of master key
opening the door to the conference hall that offers a peaceful reception to
cultural congresses. It will be war there -- that is to say, it the
participants in the conference have their wits about them, which unfortunately
is unusual.

b. A second factor, then, is that time and again the problem itself is given
new solutions which -- even within the same period -- contradict each other. Or
that it takes the shape of theoretical foundations. All this happens in as well
as outside the church. Both concepts, "Christianity" as well as "culture," are
thus frequently created, fixed, and used in different senses. Consequently the
problem of "Christianity and culture" is in the (as we shall see later on:
incorrect) opinion of many people -- wittingly or unwittingly -- narrowed down
to a problem of "religion and culture," or of "nature" and "grace," which are
then repeatedly considered as two separate territories. Indeed, the word
"territory" is easy to handle. However, it is mostly used in a too strongly
geographical, not to say, mathematical sense. And mathematical concepts (such
as e.g. a point, a line, a plane, a "territory") do not find their correlative
equivalents in reality. Besides, one may perceive that even then many questions
appear one after another.

c. To all this must be added that the devaluation of the name Christ caused
also the devaluation of the concept of culture. The church started to trifle
with the name Christ, and philosophy did the same. As a result they also trifle
with the problem of Christ and culture. As soon as two concepts are devaluated,
the right track that must be followed by those who search for the relation
between them is blotted out.

d. One has only to consider how those who call themselves church, broken adrift
from the contents of the Confession of Faith, speak about the Christ. What is
Christianity? Who is Jesus Christ? What is the historical position of this
Jesus in the world and His significance for historical life? Does He have any
influence at all on our historical life with its continuous relations? Is He
indeed the incarnate Word of God, or is He (rather: he) no more than one of the
many Gestalten of God's Word? Is the Gestalt of the Word of God an adequate
revelation of its Gehalt, or is the Gestalt the paradoxical opposite of the
Gehalt? Is the historical Jesus of Nazareth the fulfillment of the Old
Testament expectation of the Christ (the Messiah), or is the messianic idea not
adequately revealed in Him, or perhaps only fragmentarily? What does the name
Christ mean? What does God intend with the name Messiah? What does His
anointing mean? Does it really include a divine commission ("His being
ordained"), and also a real gift ("His being made capable"), or are these two
only designated in a symbolic way? Is there a fundamental difference between
those "anointed ones" whom we consider as ordinary men and Jesus of Nazareth as
One anointed in a completely distinct way? Or is this suggested fundamental
difference no more than a fiction only? To what extent can He, as a historical
person, act in human life in a critical, that is, judging and absolutely
decisive manner? Does He Himself, as Jesus, as a historical person, together
with our whole human life, lie under a crisis, that is, under a radical
judgment of God that condemns the world as this, as our world, or did He let us
hear on earth, in a pure and effective, lively, judging and sifting way, the
voice of God as the perfect Judge and perhaps also as our Father, the voice of
the supreme and, in fact, unique criticism, repelling or attracting? It is
actually something to weep about, but it is a matter of fact that in the
circles of what is called Christianity there is much serious dispute about all
these questions nowadays. And so we stand there as a concrete or legendary
"community" of "Christians"; we all lay claim to this name, and get angry as
soon as the one denies it to the other. But in the meantime we are very
uncertain about the fundamental questions concerning Jesus and concerning
Christ, at least among ourselves. Neither are we sure about each other.
Opposing each other we stand with a series of written and especially unwritten
Christologies in the midst of a multifarious world which claims that it is
continuing to build up its "culture." And although we repeat a thousand times
in tense and agitated Christian protest that the culture of this world is not
mature and not pure, that it is deceptive, and that the reward of (also
cultural) sin is death, the question is urgent and hurts so deeply, especially
as question, whether we ourselves are not (at least as a group) completely
unauthorized and unable to utter even one single word on this problem, because
of our profound differences with regard to the term "Christ" as we find it in
the problem of "Christ and cultural life." We are more and more active as a
group in international, interdenominational, and interconfessional, ecumenical
relations, and in sending out all sorts of messages concerning world life and
culture. But it all lacks power, for as a group we no longer know Christ. As
long as Jesus Christ, for us as a group, is not the Known One and the Familiar
One, we utter nothing but immature statements about the relation between Christ
and cultural life. For the first of these two terms is already hazy. And an
international, inter-academic, ecumenical haze is the worst of all.

e. Is the situation any better as far as the second term of our problem is
concerned, namely, cultural life? What actually is culture? The answers differ.
We have already referred to that in a few words. However, it is really
oppressing that in spite of this we still present all sorts of nervous,
hurriedly fabricated and even, as far as our own point of view is concerned,
illegitimate constructions. The worst part is not that the culture-philosophers
time and again supply widely divergent answers to the fundamental issues. The
worst part is this, that while all sorts of culture-philosophers entrench
themselves behind a certain -- as a matter of course, subjectivistic -- theory
of value, Christians, even confessional ones, fail to ask themselves more and
more if not the first and actually only true value is that of the covenant
communion with God, that of the assurance of faith, the value of Christian
gratitude, which in a practical syllogism assures faith from the fruits thereof
that it is true faith. The worst part is the servility with which Christian
confessors, as soon as they touch the problem of culture, timidly look up to
the unbelieving culture-philosophers next-door: Would they be so kind as to
grant us a nod of approval? The progressive submission of Christian thinkers
and theologians to (non-Christian) cultural and other philosophers, is more and
more becoming an obstacle to giving a unanimous and unequivocal answer of
faith. The youth leaders of today and lecturers of adult education classes, as
far as they have a Christian background, realize perfectly well that the
drafting of a concept of culture meets multiple and searching questions. At
their conferences they toil with the problem of history, that of the individual
and society, of the essence of the nations and the distinct races of men, of
time and eternity, of physics and metaphysics, religion, morals and natural
law, of evolution and creation. But about the fact that we as Christians have
to take our starting point in the prejudices of faith, and that we have to
accept upon authority, and consequently to act accordingly, that our positive
and negative attitudes must merely and solely be a matter of faith, which (as
we confess in our Catechism) is a sure knowledge and a firm confidence -- about
all this one can hear quite often as long as certain points of systematic
theology (ecclesiastical suspensions included) are at stake, but one hardly
hears the same things as soon as the sphinx of cultural life comes under
discussion. There is much pride in the many words that are spoken on the theme
of right action, but in the meantime the speakers do not discern the oppressive
fact that this whole ideogram of "culture" and "cultural life" remains very
hazy, and that one can work with it only a premature and hypothetical basis. It
is an artificial term that many people operate with; however, they do so
without being justified philosophically, theologically, and, above all, as far
as the concrete service of the living God is concerned.

f. When finally we act as if we really have established a connection between
"Christ" and "culture," then the main question is not always put to the fore:
What is it actually all about? Are we talking about culture as such (the
culture) or only about a certain kind of culture? Is there indeed a permanent
culture, which may be known by the peculiar style to which it is faithful, or
do we, if we keenly discern things, find only a chaos of cultural tendencies?
If it is not culture as such but only a particular form of culture, which is it
then? The national culture or just a national one? The or an international
culture? The or a temporary one? The or a future one? Is it a (or the) culture
which we have created or have to create. Let alone are able to establish --
that is to say, we as Christians? Or is it a sort of ideal culture that we are
required to acknowledge or to hope for? Do we as Christians have to act in this
world and its culture in the way of reform and revolt? Are we capable of doing
this? Or have we perhaps been given only the limited task that we might somehow
or other force our way through the rapid currents of this world's multifarious
life, and thank God afterwards because the ship of our life just missed being
wrecked in the tremendous energy of the breakers? Is there really a positive
task for us as Christians? Does "following after Jesus" then really include the
tireless actualizing of a God given creative ability unto a peculiar (or
distinct) Christian culture with world-conquering tendencies? Can the
"following of God" be recognized in certain concrete acts in conformance to the
material contents of divine commandments, and also in an accordingly concrete
and steady attitude? Or is the following of God a formal concept only: God did
indeed create the world, but He also permanently changes it, and once will do
so in a catastrophic manner, wherefore only those can follow Him who replace
any "yes" spoken to the existing world by "no" and thus consider any attitude
as being of the devil, the revolutionary as much as the conservative attitude,
and vice versa? Is a Christian's action performed in earnest or just as a game
-- by virtue of a fixed ordination that does not permit us anything but the
game, and thus makes the game into the only possible "earnest"?

                                      4.

Innumerable are the questions that have not been answered, and, indeed, that
have not even been formulated yet. "Jesus Christ" and "cultural life" have
alternately been called enemies and friends. Or even complete strangers one to
another. The one, with Tolstoy, sacrifices "culture" to (his) "Christianity";
the other, with Nietzsche, abandons Christianity in favour of "culture"; a
third one flares up in anger as soon as he hears that Christ and culture are
considered to be connected with one another (cf. the contemporary, Barthian
inspired, criticism of a so-called neo-Calvinism). The starting point of the
first two views -- partly also of the third one -- is an antithetical relation
between Jesus Christ and cultural life, real as well as potential. On the other
hand there are also those who, eagerly or with the feeling that they, too, are
fortunately still allowed to participate, raise the slogan that Jesus Christ
and "culture" can certainly be reconciled with one another and that the
relation between the two may ultimately be considered an amicable one.

It may be unintentional, but the inevitable result of all this is, of course,
that among those who swing back and forth in this manner practice reveals many
greatly varying aspects. According to the one there is no higher task for a
Christian than timidly to eat under the table "the crumbs which fall from the
table" of unbelieving "culture builders," and consequently he defends this
timorous eating with the thesis that in cultural affairs God has not imposed
teetotalism. He, then, will never get beyond a questionable argumentum e
silentio: What he wants has not expressly been forbidden; it is therefore all
right. Do not ask him whether this eating of crumbs from the table of others is
a meal of faith and love or a gesture of embarrassment, with a corresponding
argument of embarrassment providing the necessary rescue. The other, however,
jauntily asserts himself in cultural life, puffs up his little Christian person
to a certain cultural pride, and keeps himself convinced that it is nothing but
an argument of embarrassment when the above-mentioned brother, sighing and
apologizing a thousand times for his meals of crumbs, quotes the apostle Paul
and says, that one "cannot go out of the world" (I Corinthians 5:10). He in
fact brands this argument as inferior. In his opinion it must be replaced by
the proud watchword that a Christian has to promote God's honour "in all
spheres of life," cultural life included. However, the crucial question, what
"cultural life" actually is, and, in close relation with it, what exactly the
sphere or territory of cultural life is, most likely remains unanswered for the
time being, even by him.

We are fog-bound. Even the followers of Dr. Abraham Kuyper are. For years and
years they talked of nothing but "God's honour in all spheres of life." The
more scholarly ones among them constantly repeated Kuyper's adage concerning
"sphere sovereignty." Every "sphere" of "life" had its own "sovereignty.
However; often they do no more than repeat this slogan. No wonder. For Abraham
Kuyper himself could not clearly explain what exactly those "sovereigns" in all
those "spheres" are. One single Sovereign -- that we can accept and understand
But as soon as one starts to speak about "sovereigns" in the plural, each of
them in his own sphere, then things become vague. When Kuyper says that God
created everything "after its kind," he only repeats a biblical datum. However,
it is really a big leap from "law of nature" to "sovereign." It is also a big
leap from a creature of God to a product of man. And the same must be said
about a third one, the leap which he makes from the respective kinds of
creatures to the so-called "spheres" in which they play their role either with
or without the help or hindrance of man. Kuyper's metaphorical language is here
also a metabasis eis allo genos, a matter of mixing up unequal and
heterogeneous quantities.

This is disastrous, in particular when one speaks about "spheres" each having
its own sovereign. Really, we are fog-bound.

                                      5.

Now the sky can clear up only if we quietly put ourselves under the preaching
of the Scriptures. They are fundamentally nothing but a revelation from God,
knowable and known in Jesus Christ, His Son. Therefore no one can derive from
their teachings anything concerning the theme of "Christianity and cultural
life" unless he lets them reduce the problem to the matter (not of "Jesus and
cultural life," but particularly) of "Jesus Christ and cultural life." It is no
doubt very useful to consider briefly why the first two formulations of our
theme are never able to penetrate to the foundation of our problem, while only
the last mentioned one really can. As soon as we have found the answer to this
question, we believe that we are holding the clue to our subject as the
Scriptures present it to us.

                                      6.

Actually, as we said, the problem should not be formulated as "Christianity and
cultural life" For this formulation would not bring us to the root of the
problem. As a matter of fact, by "Christianity" one can understand among other
things: (1) the community of Christians (in the proper sense of the word or
not, including or not including those who are Christians in name only), and (2)
the visible result which it was possible to record in the visible world because
of the Christian activities of the community of Christians, or, rather, which
was and time and again still is, recorded within the framework of a more or
less fixed communis opinio. Of course, the word has many more meanings However,
let us leave them for what they are for convenience' sake. For even when we
restrict ourselves to the just mentioned two meanings of the word, we have
enough problems. As for the first definition, what, for example, does
"community" mean? Is it just the simple fact of being together, or the
possibility of gathering together for those who call themselves Christians,
correctly or incorrectly (sun-ousia)? Or is it a spiritual unity, spiritual in
the sense of produced by the Spirit of God? In other words, is it a unity that
is in conformity with God's Word (koinonia)? Is this koinonia the result of the
efforts of man, some thing that must come into existence by his actions, or is
it the product of God's efforts, something that has come into existence and now
calls on people to act accordingly by acknowledging the communion which God has
made, de jure as well as de facto? Or, as far as the second definition is
concerned, is one, for the registration of such a result of Christian
communion, dependent on history and tradition, or can every age thrust upon us
its own theory concerning this registration and qualification? "Christianity"
is a difficult word -- if one wants to go into the matter.

Nevertheless, in whatever sense one may take this word, one thing is certain:
it is impossible to take "Christianity" as one's startingpoint when one wants
to ask questions regarding cultural life, let alone solve the problem of
"Christianity" and culture.

a. This is impossible in the first place because Christianity can never be the
standard. Take (in the first of the two above mentioned meanings) Christians
together as a community, and then -- if you could, by theoretical abstraction
(for you cannot get any further!) -- purge this community of all those who are
Christians in name only. Or (according to the second meaning of the word) take
Christianity in the sense of the result of the Christian (in your ideas even
supposedly catholic) creed in man's and the world's life, and even be as strict
here as you can in applying the standard and in bestowing the title of honour
"Christian." Whichever way you would take it, in neither of the two cases would
you be able to derive from this "Christianity" a standard for dealing with your
problem. No Christian can be the standard, neither can a factual datum be.
Facts do force our hands, no one can dispose of them, and everyone's actions
rest upon the facts. Our hands can easily beat the air, but this does not
result in or lead to anything. Only when they are put into the material
produced by reality as it has historically developed, they are able to fashion
this material. And as for this fashioning of the material (our acting with
responsibility), we fully depend on the standards which God has established.
The latter do not force our hands, they command us. Only the Word of God, Holy
Scripture, is the standard; not the Christian or Christianity, but the speaking
Christ Who has been made known to us by revelation, and Who also Himself
"explains" God to us, and as the Giver, Keeper, and Interpreter of the Law
speaks God's Word to us without any restraint caused by sin or impotence, He
Who has been sent to the people on behalf of God. Any historical trend, also
any cultural trend or construction, that would be based on Christianity as a
datum or even on an ideal Christianity, which is a product of the mind, must
necessarily end in sin, violation of the Law, and irreligion; it would be able
to establish nothing but a Tower of Babel. For by taking a wrong startingpoint,
it has already started to do so. This way also historical materialism and
positivism have taken the courage to orate on Christianity and culture. This
way (though proceeding from different presuppositions) idealism, too, in more
than one form, has done the same thing. This way even Barthianism has sometimes
done so, when it said, "Es predigt": there is the fact of "preaching" in
Church, which fact is then the startingpoint for further theoretical
development. There is a certain quantity called "Christianity". However, this
fact is not the foundation of any doctrine, although every doctrine must take
into account all facts, also this one. Facts do not form a foundation for
doctrine. On the contrary there is already a certain measure of doctrine in any
description of a fact (or of what is considered as such). When there is a
thunderstorm, this is a fact. But those who believe in Wodan and those who can
explain it and have become acquainted with the theory of electrical discharges
understand and describe this fact in completely different ways.

There is even more than this. "Christianity," as it takes shape in the midst of
the world carries the name of its own choice, and can be registered, is itself
always deeply involved in a current cultural process or even in a series of
cultural processes. Followers of Hegel, and consequently also Marxists, arid
National-Socialists, count Christianity itself among the cultural phenomena:
the suppliers of the theories that were chartered by Anton Mussert[1] wanted to
entrust the "Department of Culture"[2] with the interests of Christianity
(which could be protected only in the European part of the Kingdom of The
Netherlands). This already shows how seriously and inevitably "Christianity"
itself -- even if it were only to protect its name -- is always involved in the
clashing of the cultural trends that are present in every constellation of
world life. Besides, it varies according to local, national, anthropological,
and even climatological types. In brief, the term "Christianity," taken in this
sense, is a sphinx, and nothing else.

b. And to the extent that it is no sphinx but can be allocated in history in a
pure or (which is something different again) fixed shape, it has on its part
often interfered in the cultural struggle in a high handed and arbitrary way
and with many shortcomings and sins. In every subsequent process of formation,
deformation, or reformation, it sometimes tried to become a real and direct
cultural force (remember the papacy), or lived, either consciously or
unconsciously, from certain principles which put on its work programme a clear
cultural commission as its essential task. Of course this was wrong. For
Christianity is not a matter of culture. Although, on the other hand, culture
is certainly something that Christianity is concerned with. But according to
the ever-repeated (although not biologically or evolutionistically determined)
action of deformation and reformation, historical Christianity has never been
able in the course of the ages to lead one specific cultural idea to victory,
neither has it ever fully completed any of its mandates regarding cultural
life. One will find here the most extreme variations: there is a vast distance
between cultural imperialism -- as it was developed by the Church of Rome in
certain periods -- and the isolated position, separatism, and asceticism of the
"pious" but culture-shy people and congregations that are of the opinion that
they represent true Christianity only in this sort of shyness Who would be able
to derive a cultural standard from such a "Christianity?" Neither is a majority
or a minority decisive in this respect. Justice as well as power, health as
well as healing gifts, they can belong to the majority, but also to the
minority, even to the smallest minority one could imagine.

                                      7.

In the second place: History confirms that, strictly speaking, the problem
cannot be formulated as "Jesus and cultural life" either. For, to put it
strongly, if no more is added to it, "Jesus" is of no use as far as our problem
is concerned. We have to consider that Jesus has explained Himself as the
Christ. This Self-explanation (according and with reference to the Scriptures)
is accepted upon authority by the one and rejected by the other. This rejection
is often camouflaged under the cloak of ignorance. The complaint is: He is such
a riddle: please allow me to pray the prayer of the ignorant, in order to learn
how to qualify this Jesus! Presently one will himself construct some Jesus
image or other. Not God's Sent One, Jesus Himself, but a human concept of
"Jesus" is also made into a sphinx by those who do not acknowledge Him as the
Christ.

However, He is not a sphinx, for His Self-explanation is clear enough. But He
becomes one to those who dispose of His Self-explanation. Then for these people
a riddle is propounded in Him. And this riddle is not disclosed as long as
Jesus is acknowledged only as "Jesus". And old maxim used to say: Ubi vides,
non est fides; that is wherever something can be seen, no faith is needed. We
will not analyze this adage; it can be well meant, but in general terms it is
not correct. People could see the "historical Jesus"; but, in order to really
know and acknowledge Him, faith was needed. The fact that the man Jesus was
God's Christ (Messiah), that He was called the "son" of Joseph, though without
having been begotten by him, and much more than this, remained a matter of
faith. Ubi vides, ibi fides. Visio quaerit fidem. Fides quaerit intellectum.

This thought in fact preceded Christianity. For the Bible has never restricted
itself to a speaking of "Jesus" only. In the Old Testament it first spoke of
"Christ" (Messiah). But the fact that this promised Christ would later appear
under the name of "Jesus" was then not yet known. However, since He did come,
the Bible always speaks, as a matter of fact, about Jesus Christ. Before
"Jesus" as a historical person came into this world, He was announced as Christ
.

That is to say, God described His office and work in its quintessence before
His historical appearance under a human shape, and in a particular cultural
situation, was even vaguely defined. Remember only the protoevangel in
paradise. When after many centuries, during which God, by means of the
prophets, had spoken about the coming Christ (Messiah) and given information in
advance about His office and work, this Messiah came into the world and was
registered as the son of Joseph and Mary and was called "Jesus," then everyone
had to learn to consider this Jesus as the fully authorized Christ unless Jesus
was to remain a riddle to him with a supposed appeal to his own pretended
authority to interpret. A supposed appeal, we said, for the real Jesus is
terribly angry with those who refuse to accept the key to the interpretation of
His person and work from the hands of God's anointed Prophet and Teacher. He
then comes to such a generation -- usually it is a majority -- with visitation
or with punishment. Both fall upon His unwilling hearers-interpreters as often
as He in the gospels, first of all to His first "contemporaries" but to us, too
(who are also the contemporaries of the living Christ, Who governs us from
heaven), speaks in parables. Also concerning the subject of serving God in
cultural life, He repeatedly speaks in parables to His "contemporaries"[3] of
the days of old as well as (via the Bible) of these days, and He reveals the
meaning of these parables also in cultural theological respect, to those only
who afterwards interrogate Him about all this (today via His Word) in faith. Of
what benefit would Jesus be to us if nothing else were to follow, if no second
[4] name, no second office-name, the name "Christ," were added to this first
one? The gospels do not give a biography of Jesus. Neither do they design their
own image of Him. They already tell us that in our thinking we are not to go
beyond that which is written (concerning Christ, in the Old Testament) (1
Corinthians 4:6) They do not intend to give a scientific-systematic summary of
His life's work from any formal and methodological point of view, not even from
any cultural point of view. Any systematic treatise on Jesus' works, teaching,
prophesying, building up and breaking down, is lacking in the Scriptures. The
Gospel is neither a biography nor a novel. Neither does it describe a cultural
phenomenon according to cultural-philosophic or cultural-historical methods,
nor does it write Church history after the method of the science of
historiography. The Gospel is not even a systematic exposition of the history
of salvation. Therefore every effort that wants to learn only from a so-called
Life of Jesus what he meant and still means in a particular aspect of human
life is doomed to fail. For we have no Life of Jesus. Whoever consciously would
like to write it would strain himself in the telling and do injustice to Him.
One can and may never separate the gospels -- which describe to us the course
that Jesus Christ followed towards and through human life in fulfilling God's
counsel and in accordance with God's revealed will to remain Himself in
evangelic redemption -- from Old Testament prophecy; nor from the history of
salvation and revelation, out of which He came to the fore according to plan --
just as this history itself is of Him and determined by Him; nor from the
epistles of Paul and the other authors of the New Testament epistles; nor even
from the Apocalypse with which the Bible completes its cycle. This Apocalypse,
too, contains a description of history, not only concerning the future, but
also concerning the past (Revelation 1:12 e.g.), and even concerning what was
contemporary to John, its author (e.g. regarding Rome's emperor-worship as
anti-christian moment, chapters 13 and 18). Also this last Bible-book lets us
hear the revealed truth regarding the background and constituent elements and
trends of any kind of history, cultural history included; e.g. that there is a
satanic urge behind the anti-christian beast (Revelation 12), and that any
struggle, the cultural one included, is fundamentally the struggle between the
seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent; it is the old serpent that in
any new cultural period persecutes the old church as woman and her one Seed and
intends to annihilate them.

To summarize it all, no one is able to characterize the work of "Jesus" in a
faithful way as long as it has not become clear to him from the whole of the
Scriptures what Jesus came to accomplish as the Christ and what He therefore as
God's office-bearer par excellence has to do in, and for, and also with the
cosmos. The biblical preaching of "Christ" must in its contents absolutely
determine already in what manner one is to speak about the biblical stories
concerning "Jesus".

                                      8.

Actually this is not so strange. No one has ever been great in this world
without having to be explained and understood partly on the basis of the time
in which he lived, but also partly with reference to his own personality, that
which the Father of spirits endowed him with individually and exclusively.
However, as far as Jesus is concerned, it is actually still different. As we
have already said, in His works he is never understood in isolation from, but
definitely also not on the basis of the time which He spent here on earth among
men. He is known also by means of, but not on the basis of, His days. For He
dominates, directs, and governs all ages. For Him the "fulness" of time does
not mean a casual occasion or, as something quite fortuitous, the fertile soil
into which He, "finding" the field, could sow whatever He wanted, but it was
His time, the "kairos" -- taken by Him, as created for His sake -- in the
"chronos" extending according to God's plan. Neither can He be explained on the
basis of the cultural history of "the nations" nor on the basis of Israel's
history of salvation, for of both these "histories" (which are fundamentally
one and of one territory) He is the foundation, the Worker, and the
"Firstling," the beginning, the principle, the aim, and also the new
startingpoint. The study of Hellenism cannot explain Him, even though it will
be essential for the distinctive interpretation of His words and works (and
vice versa) Neither does the knowledge of Judaism "explain" Him, although --
provided that it produces good results -- it sharpens every interpreter's
pencil The "faithful Witness" Who speaks continuously, but Who only as far as
unbelief is concerned sometimes speaks in riddles, is Himself not a sphinx. Oh
no, He never is. But a "Jesus concept," formed in innumerable variations by
people who do not know Him as the Christ, and an image of "Jesus" arbitrarily
designed -- this is what time and again vexes its designers and worshippers
with the quiet and mocking smile of a sphinx. The latter is again and again
placed near the great caravan-routes of mankind. However, who decides which is
the most important and the central one of these routes if the Bible is not
permitted to decide? This sphinx can be seen standing in the midst of time. But
who will put an end to the discussions -- which are being revived also in this
century -- about the real nature of "die Mitte der Zeit"? This sphinx, which
since the beginning of this era no eye has seen nor ear heard but the contours
of which time and again loom up in the hearts of many people, is passed by many
centuries. But it is silent, completely silent -- unless "Christ" has been
found in "Jesus" throughout the Scriptures. For Jesus Christ used to speak and
He is still speaking: He is "present" with His Godhead, majesty, grace, and
Spirit, speaking in His Word. Until the moment that one listens to Him, one can
only compose fiction about this sphinx but not prophesy concerning it. Jesus
must be put in His own light. Rather, He has to present Himself to us in His
own light. But in this presenting and explaining Himself in His own light,
Jesus is already doing the work of Christ. It is precisely in this work that He
is the Christ, God's Prophet, Priest, and King The light which does indeed
shine in Jesus, shines in Him because He is the Christ, the Servant of the
LORD. He does not allow us to isolate "Jesus" from "Christ" -- not even in the
academy, since it is not permitted "in life ".

Is there still any reason to be astonished because people are so strongly
divided with regard to the question what the importance of "Jesus" is for
cultural life. and because the problem "Jesus and culture" is given almost as
many "solutions" as there are minds brooding on this problem?

No. it cannot be otherwise. And in the inevitability of this oppressive
phenomenon His greatness is revealed and His judgment executed For therein we
find a proof in the negative of the horrible seriousness which is evident in
the sanctions of His positive commandment that we are never to "see" Him as
"Jesus" but always fully to "hear" Him as "Jesus Christ ". For otherwise these
"sanctions" come into force. The history of the "Jesus paragraphs" in cultural
historical works is so confusing that they make us think of a
cultural-historical judgment: "Because they seeing see not: and hearing they
hear not, neither do they understand" (Matthew 13:13). Any arbitrariness in
constructing a "Jesus image" receives its own reward: it has to share the field
with a multiplicity of the most individualistic views. We have already pointed
out some of the bad harvests produced by this noxious soil. However, remember
that it is of "Jesus" that one wants to speak; then the harvest becomes even
more audacious and depressing. The Marxist places "Jesus" in cultural history
as the great revolutionary. Ernst Haeckel utters his oracles on Jesus as
despiser of culture. Constantine the Great saw in Him the most successful
propagandist of a most Christian cultural struggle. Oswald Spengler places Him
-- Jesus! -- among the historical pseudomorphoses of Arabic culture.
Chamberlain sees in Him the founder of a moral culture. Hegel connected to
"Jesus" a sort of cultural pantheism -- this was done by him who apart from
this was yet so wise as to remember that no one can isolate himself here from
the trinitarian motifs of the early Christian way of representing things. Many
people, for whom the sun rose only at Stockholm or Lambeth, where they wanted
to formulate the "third confession" -- where is it now? -- saw in "Jesus" the
great formulator of direct "messages" to the cultural world on the so-called
topical cultural questions, although it must be said that the direct character
of their messages" can be obtained only at the cost of a fundamental vagueness.
Again other convention delegates present themselves as inspired apostles or as
inspiring mahatmas and they, too, render "Jesus" a small place among the "wise"
who have left behind a sufficient number of enigmatic sayings to provide a
lasting connection between "East" and "West". That way the traditional
"Teacher" of the West is transformed in this encounter into an equally
traditional "Patriarch" from the East. The Western world always had its
"Teachers" speak, while the East prefers to hear (!) its "patriarchs" keep
silent. The former express their conceptual learning in their lines of writing,
while the latter between their few lines make us guess at their strictly
paradoxical thoughts, deriding any conceptual "clarity'', which is then
regarded as but a lack of clarity. This way "Jesus" as yet becomes a cultural
factor, not so much because of what the theologians have heard Him say, but
because of the fact that the theosophists heard Him keep silent: the "sphinx"
is here no accident but the only suitable figure. And hardly have these people
been together in conference, leaving behind a "message" also concerning Jesus,
or, look: ascetics, mystics, sectarians of another kind, consider "Jesus" as
entirely indifferent to culture. He only speaks of God, they say, and to the
soul, and "the heart," but for the rough and tough life of the big world, He
does not, in their opinion, want to utter a single word apart from that of
permanent separation: Go out from Babylon, separate yourselves! Theologians
belonging to the school of modern Religionsgeschichte put "Jesus" in one line
with Mohammed, Zarathustra, and other "founders of religion" and do not wish to
hear of a factual distinction between true and false (pseudo-)religion; at best
they will consider a distinction between degrees of divinatory capacity. And
several chiliastic sects, which all through the centuries have nibbled not only
at scholastic hierarchical but also at living, reformationally sound
Christianity, consider "Jesus", strictly speaking, as the grim prophet of their
own cultural egotism and separatism; abruptly they dare to establish a private
community that, in a life withdrawn from the suction of the world, is looking
for the borderline which once will separate the world and the Church forever.

                                      9.

Also the "church" itself is at fault here. Even she often neglected to see in
"Jesus" and in all He did and did not do the "Christ" of God. She is guilty in
so far as she allowed theologians to lift the four gospels out of the whole of
the list of Bible books and to abandon the totality of biblical teachings if
only they could distil from the gospel data an "objective" "Jesus" image. As
long as one restricts one's attention to "Jesus," one may at best perhaps be
able to say what "Jesus" has not done with respect to the cultural question;
however, one will not arrive at a positive answer. For in order to he able to
give a positive answer we must, apart from the name "Jesus" (His first
name-of-office), take into account the (second) name "Christ." Those who only
reckon with the "Jesus" of historiography, neglecting the prophecy that comes
to us in the name "Christ," do not get any further than small wares: an
exemplary interpretation of text fragments, a parallel, a comparison, a
parable. Such mere pedlary sometimes awakens feelings of pity when with the
help of some small details of the gospel story it distils certain contributions
to a doctrine concerning "Jesus as cultural theoretician." The gold, incense,
and myrrh of the Nativity story then sometimes have to serve as proof that He
does like riches and wealth. We are often referred to the fact that He let
Himself be served by the money of some rich persons, e.g. the wife of Chusas,
king Herod's steward, as a detail intended to teach us that Christ instructs
"the Church" to make a rule, if possible, of what was once for Israel an
emergency measure and a retaliatory measure sanctioned by special decree:
spoiling "the Egyptians ". The costly ointment with which He let Himself be
anointed in the presence of Simon, His host for the moment, His entering into
the house of rich Scribes to eat with them, even the garment that was gambled
away by soldiers at the foot of Calvary's cross and which was "without seam,
woven from the top throughout," they all serve as illustrations in
object-lessons about such problems as "Jesus and good taste," "Jesus and
riches," "Jesus and culture." We shall refrain from mentioning more.

But does one not perceive how insignificant all this is? The gold and myrrh and
incense are not mentioned again in the Gospels. The money was perhaps spent on
a flight, the flight to Egypt. The Rabbi from Nazareth did not add to the money
that He accepted but it was spent on the ministry of the Preacher of the Gospel
of God's Kingdom. The costly ointment was accepted, not in order to teach the
disciples anything about wealth and the use of wealth, but in order that Simon
would submit himself to a preaching that put him to shame, or to teach His
disciples -- it was high time -- concerning His imminent death. In the latter
case this ointment was then presently added to the supply of funeral
ingredients.

What can one do with this sort of "data" if one does not know more than this?
Is this then a cultural image: "The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air
have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay His head" (Matthew 8:20)?
Is this really a cultural-technical datum: "When they chase you away from one
village, go to the other and shake off the dust of your feet (Matthew 10:14)?

And if one does not want to hear any questions but only assertions, well, here
they are. He withdrew partners from a flourishing fishing business, James and
John. He made, no, not some masked culture types but unmasked fishermen, even
from Galilee, follow Him, the Nazarene. One of them speaks his own dialect when
he timidly slips into the court-room where the great court-case of the world is
decided. He heals lepers, although sporadically; however, He does not establish
leper houses. He opens the eyes of the blind -- again, sporadically -- but He
leaves others in their blindness; at any rate, He does not establish an
organization for the support of the blind. For such a miracle He once uses mud.
Although He is offered a royal crown, He does not accept it. He makes His entry
into the capital while sitting on the young of an ass. He deals carefully with
servants, and when one of His disciples injures the ear of a certain slave
called Malchus, He heals the man; but it is in vain that one looks for the
beginning of an Association for the Abolition of Slavery. He looks those who
have been possessed by demons deep into the eyes and leads them to the light;
however, He never built a clinic, and did not make any preparations for that --
at least, not in any direct sense. And the authors called by Him later on issue
books, gospels, that show a complete lack of any artistic style and that are
written in the common language of the people. Again we ask: Does one make any
progress by trying to define and solve the problem with the help of this sort
of details? Can one in this way even contribute to its solution?

                                      10.

Perhaps someone is of the opinion that we are not completely fair, and
certainly not serious, in presenting the above collection of curiosities from
this petty retail trade. Instead of these details, would he prefer to see the
life of Jesus in broad outline?

Well, this can be arranged. But the result will be the same, even then.

We shall mention a few points only.

When the Rabbi of Nazareth was here on earth, Judaism -- just to mention one
thing -- was of almost no significance at all as far as the plastic arts were
concerned. The background of this frequently observed phenomenon could not have
been entirely praiseworthy in His opinion. For more than once it is evident
that He was a seer and a prophet. The seer knows what is in man. and the
prophet time and again brings it into relation with the rules given in the
Scriptures. Therefore His keen eye and His prophetic insight made it clear to
Him -- more than it would be possible with us -- that this deficiency was -- at
any rate, was also -- the result of a wrong interpretation of the second
commandment which the Father of Jesus Christ had given in the Law of the Ten
Commandments to His people Israel and to all the nations. We would be utterly
wrong if we were to apply Christ's complaint and accusation that the Jewish
leaders had made God's commandment null and void by their human ordinances only
to those few ethical maxims concerning which the average reader of a Church
magazine asks the editor of the question column for clarification: Are we
allowed to eat blood sausage, to ride our bikes on Sunday, to marry our cousin,
and things like that. The unproductiveness which, with respect to the plastic
arts, distinguished the Jews from almost all the civilized nations of those
days and later, must, in as far as a wrong interpretation of the second
commandment was involved, have seemed a gap to the true and Spirit-filled Law
interpreter and as such must have hurt Him. One can express this opinion
without prejudging the question whether the plastic arts are included by Christ
among the concrete assignments which he gives to His soldiers on their
pilgrimage of the "last days." For suppose that He with respect to the plastic
arts does not unconditionally wish to give His people a mandate; still He can
never take under His protection a sort of negativistic and ascetic ethics as
far as it originates in a wrong interpretation of the Law of God and intends to
be a God pleasing document of this wrong interpretation. This is the more
likely because the tabernacle as well as the temple made use of the services of
men who were proficient in the plastic arts, even (think of Bezaleel and
Aholiab, who are given a prominent place in Dr. Abraham Kuyper's concept of
common grace) by divine appointment. Nevertheless, "Jesus" has not given any
direct instructions regarding, say, a theory of art, which, in whatever way one
may wish to answer the question that was asked above, would at any rate have
been fitting there. When one thinks of the man Jesus as the chief Prophet and
Teacher, also for the artist, of Him Who lived always in the presence of God
without sin, then His "attitude" in this respect will be the more
"disappointing," at least for those who would like to hear from the mouth of
"Jesus" a more or less developed system of cultural ethics or aesthetics. Even
the (developed) prolegomena are lacking in "His" teachings. He did not teach
His "own" ideas: He was not a lecturer but a Prophet. How often did He not say:
"It is written"? Speaking this way He does not take His place behind a lectern
to teach a system that carries His own name, but He takes His place among all
the prophets; and even when He shows Himself to be more than these, as their
"fulfilment," He can never be separated from them. This is most
"disappointing"; this "Jesus" considers it an honour that no lectures on His
"own" rules are to be expected from Him. He came, as He says, not to destroy
the God-given "Law" (torah) but to fulfil it. "To fulfil" is not the same as
"to destroy" (by means of His "own" system), and also not the same as "to add
unto".

Above we mentioned the absence of a fully developed and direct thetic theory of
culture. However, does "Jesus" perhaps present a kind of polemics or
apologetics regarding cultural theory? Or principles of stylistics? Or
fragments thereof? Or aphorisms?

Quite easily one could encourage the notion that there was, after all, some
reason for such during the period which He spent here below among men. We have
here in mind the increasing hellenization of Israel's life in those days. Also
the arts were greatly influenced by Hellenism. For example. music. Just as for
the "sacred" cult-activities the Hebrew language obstinately maintained itself
while Greek made itself felt in matters of culture, so Jewish music continued
to be binding for the liturgist for use in the temple cult, but outside it the
"free" Hellenistic music fought against the Israelite style for predominance in
profane cultural use. Architecture showed the influence of several cultural
phases but in particular of the Hellenistic one and more and more lacked a
character of its own. The public games, the governmental machinery, military
service, fashion to some extent, they all were more or less patterned after
foreign models. This, again must have hurt from all sides the mind of the man
Jesus. a mind sharpened with precision by the knives of the Law of God. A lack
of style and in particular a loss of style must have wounded Him, Who as a man
happens to he God's second and supreme composition without flaw. It must always
have struck Him. To Him as Bible reader, by day and by night a (not only ahnend
but) Self-conscious Prophe, the levelling, the internationalization, the
quasi-ecumenically interested denaturalization of (also) the cultural life of
His people -- a denaturalization which in fact prostituted itself to all the
"gentiles" -- must have been to Him a pressing reason for anxiety. For partly
this was one of the consequences of the dispersion of Abraham's children among
the nations. And was this dispersion not called God's judgment? It showed the
vestiges, the traces or remnants, of the mastery of foreign powers that had
successively overrun, the people of "Jesus." In this dispersion He saw the
results of Israel's sin; and only in the second place He saw in it a
preparation for His own mission. Israel's dependence on other countries was to
him a matter of punishment. In it He distinguished sin, loss, weakness,
worldliness. And is not sin the most severe punishment of sin? This is how
already the prophet Zephaniah had seen things. For this prophet, too, had
fulminated against a raving about, e.g. foreign fashions or against a copying
of foreign customs ("leaping on the threshold" Zephaniah 1:8 9). During King
Josiah's reformation he had joined the battle against the sin of ogling
demagogues and fulminated against "acting the Assyrian way" just as still today
among us the "stalwart" Calvinist, at least in theory, discerns a bad odour in
the fashion of Paris, and the puritan is on the alert against any possible
infiltration by a cultural "fifth column." For the company of exotic
drill-sergeants deserves no gentler name. The one prophet fulminates against
populations the youth of which speaks "half in the speech of Ashdod" (Nehemiah
13:24); the other calls for the days when there will no longer be a "Canaanite"
(such a huckster) pottering about in the temple of Yahweh. Philistine
influences are broken by the one reformer in the south, Syrian ones by the
other in the north. The importing of foreign religions, at least their "forms"
(as if these could be abstracted from their contents) for the sake of business
relations and cultural contacts, is plainly called "going awhoring'' by a third
one. All the prophets know quite well that Israel is first of all "the Church''
and only then "a nation." It is a nation only because it is the Church. And
behold after so many centuries there is now "Jesus," standing in the midst of
His people realizing He is the precursor-successor of Zephaniah and of all the
reformers temple-purgers, and prophets and still He does not produce for His
"contemporaries" a detailed and fashionable system of hodogetics regarding
"fashions" or their opposite; neither does He in a direct way lecture on style
and cultural forms. But He preaches, leads, prays, holding His Bible in His
hand and His fishermen by His hand. Even in the matter of the marriage problem
He refuses to choose between the two theories presented to Him regarding the
right of divorce (the doctrine of Hillel over against that of Shammai, Matthew
19). He never looked at a woman. What is all this? Is this negativism? Or
asceticism? Is this a matter of surrendering riches of life which can surely be
considered wealth? Is it a hankering after a dome des invalides? Please stop
asking questions. Rather realize that with our questions-with-no-answers we are
sent from pillar to post as long as the full biblical light concerning the
Christ has not dawned upon the doings of Jesus.

                                      11.

Therefore the problem is none other than "Jesus the Christ and culture".

For in this combination of the two names the key to its solution has been given
us. Jesus: the essence of His office (to save pleromatically). The Christ: the
legitimacy of His office (He has been "ordained" of God definitively) and also
the guarantee of His office (He was anointed "with the Spirit" not with some
ointment only, and consequently: He always attains what He definitively wants
to attain in pleromatic respect). Those two names which have been combined this
way once only, exclusively, in this one Person-having-two-distinct natures,
create style in what seems to be stylelessness, and a chord out of the single
tones. Now that in the light of the Scriptures we have seen these two names
combined in Him, we hold the clue and are able to read the music of "the life
of Jesus": Ein wohltemperiertes Klavier. Rather, not "a" but "the"
Well-Tempered Clavichord. For now the office of this Man of God requires our
attention. And from the fulfilling of the office which He holds when awake and
when asleep, in going and in sitting down, in speaking and in keeping silent,
the preaching of the counsel of God concerning Jesus Christ comes to us.

This, then, applies to the first term of our problem. Moreover, from the
fulfilling of the same office we get a clear insight also into the second term
of our problem: cultural life, the cultural task, the concept of culture.

                                      12.

In the above we have time and again emphasized the fact that Jesus Christ
cannot be known without the Scriptures -- which He Himself used to quote in
order to prove His identity. We had to put our finger at this detail because
otherwise we would still not arrive where we would like to be. There have been
hundreds of "Jesuses" (Joshuas). They are still there, in the ghettos and in
the market places. Strictly speaking, there have also been millions of
"christs" (anointed ones) and they are still there, in catacombs and
fortunately also on the city squares. However, as for the son of Mary and
Joseph (as was supposed), the fact that He would deserve to be called Jesus
(Joshua) truly and exhaustively and that in Him the divine appointment would be
definitive and His being enabled to fulfill His task adequate, this we do not
know from the sound of the names, neither do we read this in His parousia, His
appearance, but we hear this from the Scriptures.

And now that we know all this, we see that, although His office never separates
the Christ of the Scriptures from the people and in so far does not isolate or
abstract Him from them, nevertheless His unique and exhaustive, definitive, and
pleromatic anointing, and this connected with His unique Person (constituted of
two distinct natures), made Him as the second Adam and as a Mediator entirely
different in all His work from anyone else. His work, since it was and is the
work belonging to His office, is seeking us all. But because it was and is His
work, it always defines Him in His unique service to God. One cannot copy Him
without underrating Him. There are thousands of soldiers, but there is only one
generalissimo. Whoever wants to have this one generalissimo imitated, paralyzes
the whole army. The generalissimo is closely connected with them all, and he
decides for everyone what the regulation uniform will be, but he himself is
"non-regulation." However, the law of the country has been written into his
heart. Law and uniform are two different things.

Let us again take up the thread of our argument: Not to get married was a
command for Him alone. His office was to suffer and die. His office consisted
of a struggle against God and against Satan at the turning-point of the ages.
His office was: to be the second Adam; that is, to establish a community of
men. this time not of one blood, as a living soul, but from one Spirit as a
quickening pneuma. It commissions Him to rule over a large nation, not because
this nation has in common the same strongly beating blood nor a common struggle
and triumph, but on the judicial ground of the unique sacrifice of the blood
that flowed forth only from His broken body.

This office put Him among men, as One Who was never authorized to isolate
Himself but Who yet was completely lonely in the idion of His "experience" (His
peculiar experience). For "experience" means: to experience that the Word which
God spoke concerning us comes true. Well, then, a very peculiar Word was spoken
regarding Him, a Word relevant to His unique situation. Only by enduring this
loneliness He could presently praise God and cause Him to be praised by a great
multitude. This office engulfed Him, even bodily. It totally obligated Him. It
so completely dominated His spiritual and bodily life that all His flesh and
blood devoted itself fully to the one great battle that He would wage in
righteousness and strength before God (enopion Theou, coram Deo). Who does not
immediately feel that with this everything has in principle been said about
Jesus' status as an unmarried Person? Who does not feel that He would even have
been unable to "heal" marriage, also as a cultural monument, if He, as the
Servant of the LORD, had not taken upon Himself His yoke, without co- or
adoption of "the children given to Him" according to the law of flesh and
blood? "Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, He
also Himself likewise took part of the same" (Hebrews 2:14). For He is not
ashamed to call Himself the Brother of us all." This is His office, however, He
would have been ashamed indeed to call Himself the (physical) Father of some of
us. FOR THIS IS NOT HIS OFFICE. His unmarried state is not a pattern for us,
nor a humiliatingly "high" ideal for the man who has not the charisma of
abstinence. His office is so different.

One who has seen this office will presently know what to think about all those
other details which we have mentioned above as being all riddles. The gold of
the Magi from the East, e.g., and their gifts of incense and myrrh had only to
serve the Great Commission. The costly ointment, the woven garment, the fine
table in the house of prominent people -- they all had to serve the fulfilling
of His office. To be sure, He had no place to lay down His head, but this was
no proof of contempt of culture, neither was it a silent protest against
dwelling in ceiled houses "as such," for the prophets did not curse the
dwelling in ceiled houses but only the sin of those who were dwelling in them
and at the same time neglected the temple. No, was a cause of necessary sorrow
in His struggle to give us real culture, among other things: in this battle His
God never lets Him go "on leave". He selected His fishermen, people of all
kinds, not as if, sociologically speaking, only the poor and unpretentious in
the cultural world could please Him (besides they were not so "poor" those
Galileans), but because He had to work also among the people of Galilee: and
further, He did not chose fishermen only or Galileans exclusively. Did He take
them from among the poor? The one says He did, the other remembers just in time
that some of them left behind a business: they were, in this case, no poor
devils who squinted with envy at the golden ornaments of the ladies of
Jerusalem, but determined heroes who had given up the "gold mine" of their
business: the prophecy concerning the Messiah had caused their heart to burn
within them. Christ selected those people for the apostolate because He wanted
them to preach that the gold may again adorn the chair of the prominent ones if
this chair has been built not on the foundation of what makes one great among
men, but of that which is right before God. In this selection of apostles,
then, He was on His way to the hour of revelation when He would cast down all
the cultural philosophers with that fine and decisive word of revelation: the
"fine linen" of the most beautiful city "is the righteousness of the saints"
(Revelation 19:8). The establishing of leper houses will surely follow if only
first of all justice and the concept of the office which forbids euthanasia,
are again acknowledged in accordance with the written law of God. Even the Law
of Moses already knew all about social service -- the isolation of lepers
included. However, Moses considered this as a matter of theocratic service in
and to the Church, on covenant territory. Thus Christ does not give leper
houses but He gives them back, even when the covenant territory is no longer
geographically the same as under Moses, but can presently be distinguished in
local Churches. He wants to have a royal crown. but only when the crown of
thorns has obtained it. He transforms His fishermen into preachers. and His
preachers into organizers of, e.g., a movement for the abolition of slavery,
but first the world must be told that the most serious and most painful and
most humiliating slavery is that of sin, and the basis of this essential
slavery must be taken out of the life of the world by His humbling Himself unto
death, His having become a slave (Philippians 2). He, them knows with the
certainty and practicality of a seer the times and hours of His office. For
this reason He, for example, sometimes on purpose leaves some sick people in
their sickness.

While He healed others, He passes them by, but He does so because He leaves
them to be healed by the charismatic power of His apostles. Therein He wants to
show, that, as often as these apostles of His heal sick people after Pentecost,
He Himself, with His Spirit, has in them come back to this world, still being
alive after He has died. But who will ever see this leaving of sick people in
their sickness (e.g., that drudge at the gate of the temple called Beautiful)
in this light, if "Jesus" has not become to him Christ, the Christ Whose "being
a seer" is accompanied by prophecy?

Yes, indeed, He wants to be understood as the Christ of the Scriptures, also in
order to be able to give us insight into His positive attitude towards the
problems which we touched on under number 10, above. He shall speak either
directly or indirectly, and fundamentally, about architecture, the plastic
arts, music, fashions, about the struggle between the tendency to level the
cultural development of a nation and the urge to maintain its specific
character. However, He shall do so only as Christ, as the One Who as the
uncreate, eternal Logos, even before the birth of "Jesus," dominated the
history and culture of all the nations, and Who on the feast of Pentecost
entered into His working period of "a thousand years" from Ascension Day and
Pentecost until His second coming. In this final period of the everlasting, now
incarnate Word of God, He shall complete and perfect His work as the Christ --
in every respect, also in that of the questions and struggles regarding the
"cultures" of the past, the present, and the future; and, moreover, also by
establishing a Christian culture in the midst of the world.

                                      13.

Further, also with respect to the second term of our problem, that is, for the
development of the concept of "culture" or "cultural life" which is in full
harmony with God's revelation, the Scriptural concept of the office is of
direct and constituent significance. Only when we take into account the office
concept, as it was grasped so well especially by John Calvin, there will be an
end to the tiresome game of the spirits, of which the one plays "religion" off
against "culture," the other "culture" against "religion."

The chain of thought is here readily handed to us.

As for the "second" Adam, we must go back to the beginning of things, when the
"first one" was there, the first one to whom God, Who gave revelation within
the communion of His covenant, also made known the first principles of it. For
the first Adam was -- at least for those who do not think in an evolutionistic
way -- not a child, no playfully naive person. To use the language of the
Belgic Confession of Faith, he did indeed, together with all other creatures,
have his officium, His task as part of the created unity of God's works.
However, for him -- just as for the angels -- the officium became an office. He
had been made by God in order to be an office-bearer, not just as part of the
huge world-engine, but also as the engine-driver appointed by God, and
answerable to Him, answerable not in the first but in the second capacity.

This appointment of adam (man) to such a responsible office determines his
whole course of action in all his relationships. It even determines his
qualities. For God created him just as He wanted him to be. And God wanted him
to be a purposeful office-bearer. From this point of view the concept of the
"naive" primitive man disappears completely. Man is given the title of "God's
fellow-worker."[5] He is given His own work in such a wide cosmic context that
in the original world of paradisal purity this work can immediately and always
be called "liturgy"; that is, service in and to the Kingdom. To which Kingdom?
To the one of which God is King; that is, the Kingdom of heaven, the subjects
of which have been distributed over two sections of the cosmos: one "upper"
section and one "lower" section. If this is the image of the first Adam, then
the Christ can justly bear the name of the second Adam only if He, too -- as
man -- falls within and wants to fall within the framework of these categories
of office. For it is precisely as the second Adam that the Christ as
office-bearer in the middle of history must revert to its beginning and to the
then given principles. By fulfilling His office -- which is fundamentally the
same as that of all men -- before God's countenance, He takes upon Himself the
great reformational task of returning to the ABC[6] of world and life order. To
serve God, in concrete life, to obey God in any function, to fulfill God's
expressed will with all that is in us and to do so in the midst of and in
organic relation and communion with all that is around us -- this is the ABC.
Here the problem of culture, and also its definition, has been stated in
principle.

Presently we shall come back to this point.

But when after having provisionally looked for a resting point for our
thoughts, we take up the thread again, then we see Christ in His office
standing in the midst of world history. It is in such a way that the concept of
the "midst of history" (Tillich et al.) is developed in accordance with the
Scriptures. It is no "category," on the same level with the "border concept" of
a so-called a historical "beginning" or with that of an equally a-historical
"eschaton" -- again taken as a "border concept" -- but it is a result of a real
measuring and dividing of time into real periods of time. There is indeed a
historical beginning; then it was that man was created and that he fell into
sin. There will also be an end: when everyone will receive the things done "in
his body" (by him in his temporal existence here below) (II Corinthians 5-10).
So the "middle" of history is the period in which Christ comes to redeem this
end from the curse of being exclusively determined by the fall and rupture that
took place so shortly after the beginning.

                                      14.

For to make it again possible for man to fulfill this original service of God,
and to give back to Him His world and His work-community, Christ comes to do
two things.

In the first place He comes to reconcile God and to still His wrath. He does
this in perfect alliance with God Himself, Who is the subject of the
"katallage" (reconciliation): "God was in Christ reconciling the world unto
Himself" (II Corinthians 5:19). "In Christ" He was the only Author of this
katallage. For the eternally burning hatred Of God against all sin cannot keep
its postulates in harmony with those of His eternally flaming mercy unless
during time (in the so-called middle of history) God's punishing as well as His
demanding justice is satisfied. The punishing justice requires the complete
condemnation of the guilty one: the demanding justice still desires the
rendering of an inviolate obedience "in the body" (that is, during a man's
lifetime). Therefore the Christ stands surety with respect to this twofold
justice. And He indeed fulfills the pledge. This way He within time brings
about the judicial verdict that was known and demanded by God's wrath as well
as by His love: with the ransom of His blood He purchases the right of the
renewal of what is now called God's "new" mankind. It is now called His
redeemed Christian congregation which through Him and together with Him is heir
to eternal life.

However, since for Him and for all people this eternal life -- like eternal
death -- began and shall begin already here, in this cultural world," He does
yet a second thing. All life and death is now given to Him to be administered
by Him, because they remain determined in their everlasting character by the
judicially-constituent ransom of Himself in the "middle of history". This way
He administers eternal death as Christ's sentence-of-condemnation to those who
have alienated themselves in their historical existence from His judicial
verdict ("whereunto also they were appointed," l Peter 2:8). Consequently
through His Holy Spirit (Who actively propels the "middle of history" towards
the "end"), He is coming to do two things. On the one hand, He will, in the
cultural world, cause the grapes of the earth to ripen in order to be trodden
in the winepress of the administration of God's anger. On the other hand He
comes, through the same Holy Spirit "in" Whom He Himself "completes" the
"thousands years" of His own dominion of peace, to equip the work and-office
community of God which He Himself purchased for the work and service of God in
order that all its living members may enter into the city of perfect glory.

It is a struggle of a judicial nature.

For that reason it is also a struggle for power.

The judicial struggle which He fought before God and Satan was decided in the
middle of the history of the world and that way He put it again on a firm
foundation.

And the dynamic battle. which in principle He won for ever brings for God's
newly purchased work community, the new mankind, which is nevertheless
fundamentally the same as "the old," great powers of the outpouring of the
Spirit, powers of sanctification of Church conquest, of world maturation of
cultural action.

This twofold fulfilling of His office renders transparent for us Christ's life
as an office bearer here below and in heaven and is of predominant significance
for the problem under consideration.

                                      15.

For in the fulfilling of this office, whereto He has been called and also
perfectly equipped, this corrupt world experiences once again the miracle of
the appearance of the whole, the beautiful, the original or, if one wants, the
"ideal" man. As long as He is in the state of humiliation this wholeness and
pureness is only there in concealment. Then it is the decorum of a pure,
sinless human nature that always responds to God's timely speaking in
faithfulness to His Law. However, then it has not yet gained its reward, which
glorifies Him also externally rendering immortality to His human nature The
reward that glorifies Him also publicly is given Him in the state of
glorification: He has become now a King-in-His-beauties. Psalm 110:3 is always
fulfilled in Him: and many a cultural philosopher would like to have written
these fine words as soon as he had understood them.

The whole man, is he presented as a gift? Yes, he is. For (a) Christ is the
whole man standing in our midst: wherefore He can say: The Kingdom of God is in
your midst". This flawless man did not turn His back to the others, not even
for a single moment. And not only this, but (b) by the almighty power of the
Spirit given to Him. He also creates a man who in principle is whole again, as
a fruit of creative regeneration.

To believe this, has its consequences.

Ad a:

Since cultural achievements are among man's mandates, and since no one can act
in such a way that his actions have no cultural significance, Christ, the
sinless One, is the only One Who in an entirely pure manner has acted and is
still acting upon cultural life. That is to say, He is the only One among
men-after-the-Fall. Who can comprehend the fullness of the thoughts, also the
cultural thoughts, that are included in the dogma of the Church that sees and
preaches Christ as Man-without-sin? As the sinless One He responds, in words
and deeds, in a way that is always entirely to the point in every situation
into which the Spirit thrusts Him in order that He should prove Himself to be
the second Adam, even in a world that in cultural respect is far removed from
that of the first Adam. What is a more direct cultural act than to react to
cultural situations and complications fully and purely, and fundamentally, and
according to the original rule? And in all this He is not just "a" man, but the
Son of man That is to say: He is more than a bright spot or a ray of light for
a world that, also in cultural respect, is heading for the abyss; He is the Sun
of righteousness, also in this respect. "Sun" does not only mean a source of
light but also a source of energy. As the Logos-Mediator-Surety He is the
hypostasis, the solid foundation, the original ground, the fulfiller, redeemer,
and renewer of culture -- a cultural sign which shall therefore be spoken
against.

Ad b:

And because He as the Messiah, even before appearing under the name of Jesus,
and also afterwards -- that is, all through the centuries -- takes action by
virtue of the right to be obtained or already obtained in the middle of
history, by His redeeming power, He makes certain people again as they were "in
the beginning": men of God In the midst of a "crooked and perverse generation"
He places the types of a humanity that is in principle pure. They are not
perfect yet; however, in principle they are there again. They are there from
the very moment when Adam in faith submits himself to the Word of the first
Gospel promise. And they continue to appear, they increase, they become "the
great multitude which no man could number," the multitude of those who in
Christ have been sanctified by the Spirit Their host is increasing in number
and is always to be counted, until the last day.

In this administration of His own office, and in the formation of those who are
anointed together with Him ("Christians") there comes about nothing less than a
divine action (an action proceeding from the Father, the Son, and the Spirit)
to conquer the world for God, by the Christ of God. "The earth is the LORD's,
and the fullness thereof" (Psalm 24:1). This conquest is a reconquest: the
property is, as far as it has been destined from eternity, brought back to and
restored in its proper relation to the Owner. Christ connects the beginnings of
the world with the end, the earliest history with that of the last days, the
first things with the eschata, alpha with omega, the ABC of God's efficacious
legislative Word of the beginning with the XYZ of His once again efficacious
evangelical Word at the end of time. For God's legislative speaking in the
beginning of the world -- to undefiled Adam -- was a matter of speaking in and
on the basis of the covenant: a matter of ordering the mutual relation between
God and man, in promise and in demand. This covenant together with its
ordinances had then to govern the world from the beginning to the end. And now
that after the breaking of the covenant by the first Adam, the second Adam goes
in the way of the covenant again, and restores the same now the end will still
be there as yet in peace, but this is the pax Christi -- otherwise there is no
peace at all. This way Christ brings all that is in the world to its
consummation: that which is secular and that which is ecclesiastical, the seed
of the woman and the seed of the serpent, the power of angels and the brute
force of demons. He went before us and then, together with us back to the
origins ofGod's creation: He there read from the Law tables the work rules
which God in the beginning had imposed upon the man of God that in the history
of the created world any labourer created by God had to trace in himself all
the "talents" which God had distributed to His labourers in the morning of
creation and learn to use them in such a way that finally, by making productive
the "possibilities" which had been put into the creation and afterwards had to
be discovered and respected according to their kind" man would exploit all its
potentials. All the talents which the Master had given to His servants were to
have gained in the end, in the evening, as many as were distributed in the
morning. And all the possibilities hidden in the cosmos had to be traced
discovered, made to function according to the revealed law, and rendered
subservient to the edification of the whole of Cod's creation according to the
order of the respective creatures that had been established from the beginning.
If the personal man assisted in this respect by the other personal office
bearer created by God the angel -- were to fulfill his 'munus' (office) this
way, then, to use an expression taken from the Belgic Confession of Faith, any
non-personal creature and also man -- and angel -- himself, would fulfill again
his officium (office or service) (Article 12). This is, if one wants to put it
that way, the Theocratic arrangement of all things.

No less than this did Christ find written in the order of the day which God
inscribed in the heart of the cultural man of the beginning the flawless man in
the beautiful garden without a gate called "The Beautiful," for the garden was
open then.

What He read there so laid hold of and dominated Him that -- just to give an
example -- as appears from the synoptic Gospels, He told the parable of the
talents, wherein this ABC is taught again -- for reforming means to teach the
people the ABC again -- as the last one before He in accordance with His office
went the way of His sufferings and resurrection. It was the last one He told
before His "Millennium" broke through It so laid hold of Him that in His last
great prayer for the Church "sent up" in the days of His humiliation He told
the Father "I pray not that Thou shouldest take them out of the world but that
Thou shouldest keep them from the evil" (John 1715) that Thou shouldest keep
them there not in their cloister which becomes a refuge of self-willed religion
a refectory of fatigue at least if it has no window and no door open to the
world.

                                      16.

This last point the ABC of the first days of the world is the turning point in
our argument. At this very moment the door is put on its hinges and it must
fit. And -- here alone can it fit.

For here alone we come to the possibility of working out the above-given, still
only provisional, concept of culture. For culture is a word that can be found
on the first page of the Bible: "Dress the garden, replenish the earth, be
fruitful and multiply" (Genesis 215; 128). These first Bible-pages, they are
the pages of "the ABC". They contain these three brief commandments in the
description of the phase of the so-called "covenant of works". They already fit
in the virgin world which has not yet been completed; that is which is still in
the process of being developed -- according to the plan of creation -- in order
to reach the end the teleiosis, the entering into the state of being fullgrown.
Therefore this first page of the Bible, replete as it is with covenant
regulations, is directly of cultural interest. For the Creator Himself is
culturally interested. "Culture", after all, is a word that has been derived
from the Latin verb colere. Colere means "to cultivate" "to care for". The
farmer who plows his held is engaged in this colere. There is a field, which is
a promise. And there is seed, which is also a promise. But there is also a
farmer, which means: "a commandment with a promise". As a creature of God he
has been put in a cosmic unity together with the field and the seed. He himself
is also a "field" of the everlasting Spirit, and at the same time he is seed.
He, too, is in his entire bodily existence a creature of God's hand, his
"conscience", his consciousness, included. As a creature of God he, too, is
included when the Belgic Confession of Faith states that all creatures are as
so many characters in a most elegant book (Article 2). But God placed him as a
personal creature not only in but also over all other created life. That is to
say, man is, with his conscience, not only a character in the book of creation
but also a reader of this "book": he must read and understand also himself as a
character, although never isolating himself from other creatures. Deum scire
cupio, et animam: I desire to know God and the soul. This well known saying
means, as far as this "soul," known through God, is concerned, that it -- or
let us say: the conscience, conscious life -- is a character in but also a
reader of God's book. So man as a personal-spiritual being, as a called
labourer of God, and as the crowned vice regent, by the finding and sowing of
all seed is to take from the field what is in it. It is agri-culture.

However, in order to fulfill this task, as a lord of this field, and also,
though as a personal being, to confess that he (he consciously) is one with
this field, under God, he must undertake self-cultivation. This
self-cultivation immediately finds its limits here. It may not be or even be
called "personalism." As soon as the "person" is considered as "divine," or
(which is fundamentally the same thing) as an end in itself, as a reader who no
longer wants to be a character in the book of God, he has fallen to the share
of idolatry, the idolatry of "person cultivation". He then forgets that in "the
book" of creation God's name is to be read, and that the God Who may be known
from this book as the Creator and Recreator is transcendent, to an infinite
degree qualitatively distinct from all creatures. Self-cultivation,
self-development, this positive (!) askesis, that is, the training of the
creaturely aspect in us, in order that what is human and creaturely may find
its officium herein that man as a creature may see his munus and fulfill it --
this is good and even commanded. His hand shall sow and deposit the seed in the
field of the world. He shall be the medium by which, in faith and faithfulness
to the promises which God spoke to His fellow workers, the silent promises that
God put in to His creatures, each in its own context, shall find their
appropriate fulfillment. In such a self-development, such a self cultivation,
he prepares himself for the growing task, and he lets his God take pleasure
also in himself as active field.

This was God's wise intent when He created the world. It did not please Him to
create the world ready to hand. He only created it good. The world, then, as it
came forth from God's hands, was a world-in-the-promise, a world in hope; and
as long as it was good this hope could not be called "idle". Neither will the
ordinances of creation, those fixed "laws," ever be invalid, "powerless" (unto
our perfection) unless through the flesh". That is to say, when sin makes its
entrance. Not that sin can push aside the ordinances of creation. Definitely
not. Their continuity is the first condition for the blessing as well as for
the curse -- both of which were already announced in paradise. However the
ordinances of creation, which in an obedient world always make the blessing
concrete and multiply it, will do the same in a fallen world as far as the
curse is concerned. Then they are "powerless" unto blessing, but not unto
cursing.

This is how God immediately spoke in the sanctions of His "covenant of works,"
and in so doing He put the whole world, man in particular, under high pressure,
under "tension." For man, called as a fellow-worker of (and also under) God,
the world was not a world of the "omega" but of the "alpha." The paradisal
world was a beginning. And in this beginning was given, in principle.
everything that had to be there potentially to let it grow out to a completed
world of perfect order, the polis, the civitas, the "city" (state) of God,
paradisally designed and presently built. If one day it is to be full grown, it
needs a historical process of many centuries. We are indeed in an "interim":
but it lies not between a primitive and an eschatological "history," both of
which would be a-historical, but between the "first" and the "last" things,
which are as historical as the things in "the middle of history". Otherwise it
would be nonsense to speak of a "middle." The paradisal reality, then, is
definitely not a so-called "higher" reality: neither is Adam. It is only a
virginal reality: but for the rest it is, very concretely, included in time,
sober, real, historical: there is flesh in it and blood, just as there are soul
and spirit. And Spirit.

And now, in this sober, flat reality of historical paradisal life, God
announced that He would work evolution on the foundation of creation. This
evolution, according to the nature of created life cannot take place without
the energy which flows out from God, not even for one moment. But, according to
God's own commanding Word, which creates order and allots to everything is own
place, it should not happen, not even for one single moment, without man as man
of God acting therein as God's fellow worker. "You are labourers together with
God" (I Corinthians 3:9): this is not a posthumous quietive that was proclaimed
by Paul for a seceded Church somewhere in an isolated corner. No, this is a
matter of leading back in an imperative way to the "first principles of the
world. "This is not only a suitable text for a minister's inaugural sermon but
it is also the day-text for any cultural worker, for the professor as well as
the street-sweeper, for the kitchen-worker and for the composer of a Moonlight
Sonata.

Therefore the first commandment with a rich promise reads: "Dress the garden."
No castles in the air are promised in these words: neither do they suggest a so
called "higher reality." Dress the garden -- here first of all the spade, a
cultural instrument, and later on rubber boots, are not put into our hands, but
man's created spirit has to invent them according to time and place and to
design and adapt them to the dressing hand and the foot that breaks up and
tramples down the soil. For the hand and the spirit, they work together: man
has to "dress." Dress the garden -- here no introspective moralizing sermons
are delivered, but here there is a concrete work- and life-commandment, a
highly-spiritual and, consequently, everyday commandment. Biblical interim
ethics can only operate with a lex that can be grasped. A "commandment" that
one cannot lay hold of, a Word of God that one cannot work with, would not
enable it to fulfill its pedagogic calling of prescription. For the garden may
be called "paradise," and our lyrical rhetoric unfortunately may have changed
it as if by magic into an isolated, solidly fenced in spot, where zephyrs blow
and which, its seems, only a popularly misunderstood romanticism can write
about. But actually it is something completely different. The garden is the
beginning of adama, of the inhabited world. Hence it is also the beginning of
the cultural world. The garden lies open. Therefore we earlier spoke about the
beautiful garden but one without a gate called "The Beautiful." All that which
issues from the world issues from there, including that which issues from
cultural life and all its processes. For CULTURE becomes HERE,

THE SYSTEMATIC ENDEAVOR TOWARDS THE PROCESS-WISE ACQUISITION OF THE AGGREGATE
OF LABOUR BY THE SUM TOTAL OF HUMAN BEINGS AS THEY BELONG TO GOD, EVOLVE
THEMSELVES UNTO GOD IN HISTORY WITH AND FOR THE COSMOS, AND ARE PRESENT AT ANY
HISTORICAL MOMENT, HAVING ASSUMED THE TASK OF DISCLOSING THE POTENCIES LYING
DORMANT IN CREATION AND SUCCESSIVELY COMING WITHIN REACH IN THE COURSE OF THE
HISTORY OF THE WORLD, OF DEVELOPING THEM IN COMPLIANCE WITH THEIR INDIVIDUAL
NATURES, OF MAKING THEM SUBSERVIENT TO THEIR ENVIRONMENT, BOTH FAR AND NEAR,
ACCORDING TO THEIR COSMIC RELATIONSHIPS AND IN SUBMISSION TO THE NORMS OF GOD'S
REVEALED TRUTH; AND ALL THIS IN ORDER TO MAKE THE TREASURES THUS ACQUIRED
USABLE BY MAN AS LITURGICAL CREATURE, AND, SUBSEQUENTLY, TO BRING THEM,
TOGETHER WITH THE NOW MORE THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED MAN HIMSELF, BEFORE GOD AND PUT
THEM AT HIS FEET, IN ORDER THAT HE MAY BE ALL IN ALL, AND EVERY WORK MAY PRAISE
ITS MASTER.

In this definition the fundamental moments of the biblical creation story have,
in our opinion, been rendered. Dress the garden: the concrete cultural mandate
to exploit the world's potentials. Be fruitful and multiply: a growing sum
total of human beings to be subjected to the cultural mandate, the obligation
to engage in culture, time and again in every temporal phase and in all
provinces of geographic space. Subdue the earth. and have dominion: the
cultural man as a product of God's creation work, facing his own position: that
of God's vice-regent. Man created in God's own image: cultural work must be
spontaneous (man's qualities have been created in him in view of his munus): it
is a matter of serving God as a representative of His supreme authority and
consequently a matter of discovering God and causing Him to be found in the
discovering of the future. God speaks unto man and with him, because of his
appointment as the chosen representative of God's dominion over all other
creatures: and within the communion of the covenant that God made with him. God
speaks unto him and with him about the rest of the cosmos in spite of the fact
that he himself is part thereof -- which means that self-distinction is thus
awakened in him, and that self-cultivation, self-development is made clear to
him as his duty, not as an end in itself but as a matter of mandate. And
finally, he is given a moral commandment together with all that belongs to him
he is in his cultural labour subject to his Creator: in the determining of his
own goals with regard to created things he is bound to what he has heard from
God's mouth by Word-revelation concerning God's own purpose with respect to the
cosmos. He is summoned to kneel down, now and presently, before his Maker in
and together with a cosmos prepared by his own hand under God's providence,
culturally engaged as he is in view of his own, but especially of God's sabbath
into which he. man has to enter.

Under the influence of thinking that has been corrupted by sin and is hostile
to God, in a world that disrupts all relationships, culture is usually
separated from "religion", or at least sharply distinguished from it. But from
the beginning it was not so (Matthew 19:8) For religion is not a province of
life, not a separate function of or for the "heart," not an isolated activity
of a devout conventicle of people during certain elevated fragments of man's
lifetime. No, religion, or rather the service of God, is to be distinguished
from religiosity. Schleiermacher, the pantheistic
philosopher-in-the-guise-of-a-theologian of Romanticism, wrote a book entitled
On Religion. However, he dealt only with religiosity and at bottom -- by virtue
of his pantheism -- this religiosity was self-worship, in so far as "God" and
"universe" are intertwined in his thinking. He of necessity had to reject as
moralism any action having an objective. "Religion" was to him neither a matter
of "doing" nor of "knowing." In our interpretation it is no mere "doing"
either. It is service: however, not that of an all-nature particle oscillating
together with the universe, a particle called homunculus, but the service of
the man who loves his Father, knows Him as being above the world, believes Him
in the world, and wants to turn again to Him with the world in order that he
may consciously -- not by deriving all sorts of "formulas" from the "universe"
but by listening to commandments of instruction from the mouth of his
Father-Legislator -- formulate his maxims in the believing "knowledge" of the
Church and so fulfill the will of his Father. For this reason cultural work is
in paradise service of God. There one cultivates everything, the ground on
which one walks and the heart in its full depth, plants as well as the
meditative spirit. There one washes his undefiled hands as well as his soul in
righteousness -- the one thing cannot be separated from the other.

And culture will take its God appointed place again only there where one
reaches back to this original situation and its order.

                                      17.

We said reaches back. This expression already includes the confession that
there was a disruption.

This disruption was caused by sin; man fell away from God.

Then there was disintegration. His life crumbled. The same happened to the
world: the whole of it and its respective parts did no longer work towards each
other .The human mind, confused, erring, sinful, conceited, itself
disintegrated in principle, began to practice disintegration, that is to
abstract to tear asunder, to set apart and separate. Man ceased to think in a
general and widely cosmic way, keeping the parts'' in a proper relation to "the
whole" and putting all this under God's feet, but he changed his
"catholicizing" interest to a "specializing" that is detailing interest.
Details, which one can become enamoured of, were severed from the "whole" in
which one must love God. He stopped his ears to the truth revealed to him in
God's Law and confirmed by the tragic failures of his existence, the truth that
he, once he had fallen into sin, could or would no longer survey any single
theme in the great context of the whole of God's compositions, let alone that
he could or would work it out in his own.

This is how religion and culture were separated from one another: the vanguard
of the generation of Cain chose "culture" and discarded "religion" as something
unrelated; and the rear guard of the generation of Seth quite agreed with this
distinction. And that was the worst thing. For from the beginning it was not
so.

Sin worked still further destruction. For the process of disintegration cannot
stop. Not only the abstracting severance of the whole into "parts", "spheres",
"sectors", "territories ", "groups with common interests", is by itself the
result of sin, but even within these "spheres," " territories," "communities"
themselves (existing as a result of abstraction) the factor of dissolution
becomes further active to increase the effect of the de-catholicizing
principle, For while God lets the distinctions which He has put into His
creation combine unto and in a "pluriform"[7] unity Satan makes use of these
distinctions to separate things. God binds the respective races together and
shows in their coalescence mankind's "pluriformity". Satan makes them
principles of division and so forces a racial struggle. It goes the same way as
far as the different classes, sexes, characters, nationalities, and trade
organizations are concerned. To use Pauline imagery again: eye cultivates eye,
ear cultivates ear, hand cultivates hand, foot cultivates foot, and this rage
of specialization eats its way so deeply that the question whether these
respective parts of the body need each other is reserved only for the moments
when the world has a hangover, for example in what is called a postwar
mentality. Even in these moments, asking the question is no more than a token
vote. Personal aptitude is deformed into one-sidedness. One "type" will
presently be the opposite of the other, of which it originally was to be only a
complement. Everywhere differences become antitheses. Culture as the systematic
endeavour of the developing sum-total of human beings towards the acquisition
of the aggregate of labour, is hereby already formally dissolving itself. For
by acting this way people attack the system: the confusion of tongues is a
matter of punishment, but it is then promptly presented as a good thing. This
formal dissolution is the fruit of a material falling away from God. Faith in
His covenant word was forsaken. The idea of man's office was thereby abandoned.
Earnestness gave way to play and to play-culture (sport-infatuation, four
columns of sport reviews to half a column of Church news; big capitals for the
winner of a match but not a single letter for the cause of spiritual struggle
even in "Christian" newspapers). The hope, which in the regeneration of all
things sees every part again in its proper place in the whole, has been
forsaken; every day the world becomes more nervous and "culture" more and more
a casemate business: everyone creeps into his own casemate at the command of
"his" trade organization. Love for God, Who must be shown in His full glory in
that which is His own, yields and gives way to infatuation with a creature that
has broken away from its Maker. There is no unity any more. It is no longer
even sought, because unity is found only through God, and God is considered an
enemy. No longer the original style of the "commandment of life" (in paradise)
is followed. And the reason which is given -- if a reason is still given -- is
this: Well, we are in the desert now, and there one cannot do much with
paradisal commandments. But this argument betrays the hypocrisy of those who
use it: the law of life is held in contempt because God, Who by and in His Law
gave life, is Himself denied. On his part, man broken away from God no longer
has a cultural style that is determined by the moral law. Only in so far as God
(as He presently will appear to be doing), for His own sake, yet keeps the
created world within the natural context of the cosmos, man will feel himself
to be bound by this fixed arrangement of God, also in his cultural
achievements. Even though the moral law of God no longer determines man's
cultural style, the natural law continues to bind the producer of culture with
strong bonds. In the meantime the bonds of this natural coercion differ from
the cords of God's love. The strong grip of God's natural ordinances enclasps
God's friend as well as His enemy. But as far as this enemy is concerned, if it
were up to him he would in his battle against the moral law try to avail
himself of that which is natural and functions as such. If only he could, he
would precisely in his immoral culture like to attain the proper "style" of
Satan, who also has been unable to destroy the fundamental structure of God's
original creation, but who yet desires to corrupt morally, with all his
strength the world given by God. There have already been some "cultural styles"
of "Satanism".

                                      18.

As the foregoing implies, the mere fact that there is culture and that man
performs cultural labour, cannot be classified under so called "common grace."

This has indeed repeatedly been claimed. Taking the point of view of experience
and at the same time making a "guided" effort to take biblical data into
account, one then reasoned as follows: Because of the dreadful character of sin
and guilt we, men, would have deserved to descend into hell immediately after
the Fall. Such a descent, cutting off all development would have served us
right. Yet we see before our eyes that the world has continued to exist after
the Fall for thousands of years and that the potentialities given in the cosmos
are being developed as yet. Is this not "grace"? The answer is then implied: It
is indeed grace; it is God's goodness which He does not owe to us. True, this
grace does not redeem unto eternal salvation. Therefore it is called "common".
Yet, it is indeed "grace." lt gives us the benefit of the restraining of sin.
If sin were not restrained it would break out in the most flagrant, directly
satanic outpouring of wickedness. However, God stems this wickedness by the
"common" operation of His Spirit, even by the common "testimony" of the Spirit,
which testimony provides man with certainty, the immediate assuredness
concerning some clusters of central truths, this assuredness being
pre-reflexive. In this way there falls upon the desert of this world the
continually self-renewing dew of common grace, which makes life yet tolerable
and even -- by virtue of the "progressive" operation which is peculiar to it --
creates oases in the midst of the desert cultural oases also.

However, in this train of thought there are several twists which weaken the
conclusion that the term "common grace" is applicable here.

Certainly it is true that sin is being "restrained" and that the curse has not
been fully poured out upon the world. However, the same thing can be said about
the obedience which in Christ Jesus was again permitted to become a gift of
God's free grace and which by the power of Christ's Spirit also was able to
become a gift of this favour. Whoever calls the restraining of the curse
"grace" should at least call the "restraining" of the blessing "judgment." But
neither of these terms would have a scientific basis. As best they could be
used in a non-scientific description of concrete reality, but then next to one
another. However, this casual usage in speaking about "common grace" as well as
"common judgment" means in itself already a correction of the preference for
the term "common grace."

Certainly there is a withholding (II Thessalonians 2 6). However, withholding
is a feature peculiar to time. Where nothing is "withheld", there is a
possessio[8] tota simul (a possession of life so that one always has the
fullness of this possession simultaneously in his hands in full measure) OR a
privatio tota simul (a matter of having been robbed a deprivation and then
again in such a way that the fullness of this depravation is there totally at
every "moment" in full measure). That is to say: wherever there is no
withholding there is no temporal existence any longer; there "eternity" is
found. For even in paradise there was a "withholding." If the Spirit of God had
been given to Adam without a withholding, then he would have been excluded from
the possibility of falling into sin. "Development" -- or otherwise "corruption"
-- is a feature peculiar to time. Development and corruption belong to time.
The state of being developed and being corrupted (both pleromatically,
according to the subject's nature and capacity) belong to eternity.
Consequently the fact that the gifts of creation show development is not grace
but nature. There is a stirring "within them" within things, within people. It
is something "in" man: the boisterous urge of one who, since he is himself
"developing", seeks to wrest corn and wine from the "developing" earth; that is
the urge to "colere," to cultivate the garden. However that which before the
Fall was a religious work of love directed towards God as the Covenant God
becomes after the Fall a deed of selfishness of self-preservation of zest for
living (a la Pallieter[9]), not service to God but self-service. One so often
hears about "nature" that one is left with the impression this is dead capital
lying there to be used or not to be used by man (and the world). Then one jumps
to the conclusion: this world of man deserved to die, namely, to die an eternal
death, which as such takes away from all its objects the possibility of any use
of capital; yet man is able to "use" "nature," that is, to cause this dead
capital still to yield interest; ergo, this is "grace."

But this reasoning is altogether faulty as long as "nature" is understood as
temporal nature. As long as time exists, mobility, pregnancy and birth,
begetting and conceiving, belong to nature. "Dead" capital -- this is here too
playful a terminology because it is not relevant to nature-in-time and because
it only serves naively to distort the problem in order to be able to conclude
that the term "common grace" is indeed applicable.

The problem under consideration, then, is fundamentally a matter of evaluating
"time."

It is wrong to think that the prolongation of time after the Fall is a matter
of "grace." One then refers us to the seriousness of sin, arguing that "we"
deserved, immediately after the Fall, to be cast into the "lake of fire." This
did not happen; ergo, it is grace. However, one forgets that the first sentence
of this argument offers no more than a fable. If fallen man had been cast into
the "lake of fire" immediately after the Fall, then "we" would not be there.
Then only two people would have been condemned, and no more, no mankind, the
subject of the just mentioned hypothetical judgment.

Consequently a great mystery has been revealed precisely in the prolongation of
time after the Fall. This prolongation is no grace. It is simple enough to
"prove" this: Suppose God had intended to punish only as many people as he will
indeed punish eternally, should these people then not have been born first,
even successively, the one from the other? So God would have had to prolong
time already for the purpose of casting into hell as many objects of His wrath
as there will one day be. And not only this. During this time marriages would
have had to be contracted; at any rate, the copulation of men and women would
have had to occur. Therefore, e.g., an economic equilibrium would have been
essential. Culture would have been necessary. Culture is the presupposition of
all the works of God, even with respect to hell.

Praise be to God because we know more than only that there will be a hell. A
heaven, too, is on the programme of divine action. In order to populate it with
as many as God shall call thereunto, prolongation of time is needed, the
bearing of children is essential, and consequently labour, in an economic as
well as climatological equilibrium, is necessary. But precisely for that reason
it is a serious error to designate the prolongation of time and the cultural
development of the cosmos as (common) grace.

This prolongation and development are no grace. Nor are they curse or
condemnation. That is to say, if one wants to use these terms in a serious way.

They are the conditio sine qua non of both, the substratum of both.

In so far as the urge to develop creation is natural, and in so far as the
opening of any womb, even of that of mother earth, is natural, culture is a
natural thing. It is the substratum of two extremes: the acquittal of as many
as have been predestinated unto this acquittal or the banishment of those who
have been foreordained to this banishment.

Grace is not inherent in culture (colere) as such. Nor is grace inherent in
eating and drinking as such, or in breathing, or in the begetting of children.
Grace, if there is grace, would be inherent only in God fearing colere, eating
and drinking, and begetting of children not as dead but as living people.

And the curse does not lie in culture (colere) as such. Nor does it lie in
eating and drinking as such, or in breathing, or in the begetting of children.
The curse, if there is a curse, would lie only in ungodly colere, ungodly
eating, drinking, and begetting of children -- not as living but as dead
people.

Within the framework of time after the Fall, the antithesis was inevitable not
in nature but in the use of nature, and hence in culture. This is the
antithesis between cultural activity in faith and in unbelief.

There is indeed "common" grace in culture (grace for more than one person). But
there is no universal (or general) grace for all men. Therefore Abraham
Kuyper's construction was wrong.

There is indeed also a "common" curse in cultural life (a curse shared by more
than one person). But there is no universal (or general) curse.

"Common" can sometimes be the same as universal, but it is not necessarily
always so. Something can be common to all people, but it can also be common to
more than one person, not to all.

In the present scheme "common" is intended to mean: shared by many, not by all
people.

There is a common (not: universal) grace in culture, as far as the redeeming
work of Christ is shared by all those who are His -- which grace has an effect
upon their cultural achievements.

But all the others lie under the common curse. It has been given to the Man of
Acts 17:31[10] to pronounce judgment over them.

                                      19.

Immediately after the Fall the Son of God took action, not yet as Jesus but as
the Messiah, known to God alone, being the Logos asarkos incarnandus, the Word
not yet incarnate which yet had to come into the flesh. He took action in order
to begin the work and the ministry of grace in this world, and to mark as being
determined by His work the ground (not of election and reprobation, for their
ground is only God's good pleasure, but) of salvation and of condemnation. The
ground of salvation would be: Christ's merits. The ground of condemnation would
be: man's guilt, which after the Fall appeared to be determined by the presence
of Christ's work Man's guilt is his rejection of Christ. Thus Christ took
action as the Saviour-Redeemer, and as the Saviour-Avenger. The constitutive
element in both functions is: His evangelical work of redemption, which is
never satisfied with being a negligible quantity.

Because in this spirit and with this double intention, Christ, before the
countenance of God, took upon Himself the burden of the world, He became the
Redeemer of the world, culture included. He also gave -- from now on
Christologically determined -- meaning to all cultural activity. This
Christologically determined sense is universal, general. The grace therein is
not universal, but common. It is the one and only grace unto salvation,
redemptive and recreating grace. For Christ now guarantees that the world,
which in God's eternal counsel was "foreordained," will return to God, its
Creator.

Accordingly a complete history of many centuries is for His sake "inserted"
between the first sin ever committed and the final curse. We repeat: for His
sake. After what we have said, this cannot mean: only for the sake of His
redemption work (or only for the sake of the elect). It must mean: for the sake
of His double function as the Saviour-Redeemer and the Saviour-Judge. He makes
room for history in order that all that happens may be Christologically deter
mined: pro as well as con. And of course the verb "insert" is no more than
metaphorical language. History only seems to be "inserted." But in reality it
was determined from eternity. In history God makes room for Christ's all
dominating work of redemption, and for His appearing, presently as Jesus, in
order to die here on earth, rise again from the dead, and change the course of
the world by shifting its helm with hands of flesh and blood through the power
of God's Spirit.

In this history even of a fallen world, a history created by God's will so that
this world might hold its own, Christ must be considered as the One Who carries
all the burdens of the world, while He transfers all the world's delights to
God the Father, that God may be all in all -- see the concluding verses of I
Corinthians 15. So God directs all that happens in this world towards Christ.
He directs all cultures towards Christ, Who shall determine the fullness of
time: the culture of the ancient nations before the Flood, that of Egypt,
Persia, Rome, Greece, and Babylon. Such prophets of Christ's advent as Isaiah
and Daniel are the instructors of every true cultural philosopher. Because of
Him and also by Him every process is led to this pleroma of time. And therefore
every culture has to serve in order to make room for a seemingly a cultural
manger, and for an also seemingly culturally in different cross, and in order
to have a hole hewn out presently, somewhere in a garden belonging to Joseph of
Arimathea. But on the Easter morning the body of this Son of Man then rises
again from this grave, being whole and sound and flawless. Then He returns to
God's world in the Spirit, this Christ Jesus, and puts the world in its own
place. He puts sound -- that is to say: reborn -- people in the place that is
fitting for them and He heals life, in so far as life acknowledges Him as the
mystical (i.e., hidden) Head of His community.[11]

Hereby the respective relations are brought back, in principle, to their
ethically normal origin (as we have seen, the original norms are the natural
ordinances for created life). Flesh and blood do not proclaim any ethical
norms, but only the Spirit, through God's Word -- even concerning the
governing, stimulating, and Eschatological subservience of flesh and blood.

Hence, when the world was top heavy with an effete and violently disruptive
pseudo culture which did not acknowledge God as the Owner of the cosmos, a
handful of simple guild artisans in some small towns in Asia Minor -- workers,
who by the preaching of the Gospel of Christ had learned to serve God in their
daily labour -- as often as they had dutifully, with God in mind, tanned a
piece of leather or made a tent or completed a certain guild task, meant more,
precisely for culture, than the entire imperial train of the Caesar of Rome
with his palaces, his dancers, his laurels, his maecenasses, and his
metropolis. Hence, when on a certain day an escort of prisoners was led into
the city of Rome, among whom there was a certain Paul, this man was of greater
significance, particularly for cultural life, than all of culture-drunk Rome:
he signified a radical change, over against all those prominent ones who were
running the show -- he who called himself a "miscarriage."

Yes, indeed, this is true, says someone, for later on Paul would create culture
through his followers. But no, say the angels, he created culture right then,
at that very moment. A man who was sound, a man of God, entered into the wilted
and corrupt city of Rome, a maker of tents and a philosopher, a theologian and
missionary; someone who would have the courage to look the emperor in the eye,
even when the latter did not have the courage any more to do the same to him. A
man who showed his fellow prisoners a great light, and made a rented house in
Rome the forecourt of an academy of philosophy. There is a little poem by a
Latin poet that says.


    Occurri nuper, visa est mihi digna relatu
    pompa: senem potum pota trahebat anus

That is, in the street I met a strange procession: a drunken old hag was
dragging a drunken old fellow. Pardon this crude translation, but it is fitting
here. This little song in its realism as well its cultural-historical
outspokenness is as typical of the days in which the apostle Paul entered the
culture drunk city of Rome as that other little song in which a Roman emperor
pitied his "soul" because of its poverty, and, blase wished it goodnight. Yes,
indeed, this was typical of the big city of those days: drunkenness, which is
then considered to be a joke. The relationships were turned completely upside
down: the woman drags the man behind her, grey hair is no longer an elegant
crown, and the poet, chuckling over it, makes capital out of it. Here we see
the down fall of that entire world. But then the apostle Paul entered the city
in chains, for the servant is not higher than his Master. However this Paul --
although he had a thorn in the flesh and, according to his own statement in 1
Corinthians 15:8, had been brought into the Church as a "miscarriage," and
although he knew himself incorporated in to the procession of the not many rich
the not many noble, the weak ones, and those who are nothing in this world, I
Corinthians 1 -- this man Paul was, by the grace given to him an example of
soundness, also of cultural soundness In the same way the seven epistles,
hidden somewhere in the beginning of an Apocalypse, the book of Revelation,
are, by the grace that speaks in them, monuments of culture. Such is what they
are as truly as the Sermon on the Mount is a monument not only of the history
of revelation but also of cultural history. For in the Sermon on the Mount,
Jesus Christ teaches us here on earth, and in these seven epistles the same
Jesus Christ teaches from heaven how at the trough, at the office, in the
temple, in the factory, at the academy, and in the artist's studio, one has to
realize again that one's startingpoint, purpose, and direction are determined
by God, that he has to fill his "yes" and "no" with the strength of an oath,
and to do his work under the tension of living between the beginning and the
end of history as a kohen, i.e. as one who "stands and serves" before God. In
the Sermon on the Mount and in those seven epistles the world turns the other
way round, just as it had to do, in order to prepare a cradle and to set up a
workshop, even if it were only for one single man of God. Herein Christ in
principle condemns for everyone the fragmentation of life and conquers it in
the life of His own people. He fundamentally connects the respective faculties
until they have grown into a complete "university" He again links "religion"
together with "culture," making cultural activity into a concrete service of
God, and, when it comes to the point, denies anything that is not out of God
the name and honour of "positive cultural activity." For, strictly speaking,
all is sin that is not out of faith. The cultural urge per se is, as we have
seen, one of the "natural" gifts, the "gifts of creation." Therefore we can
also speak of colere in the animal kingdom. Who knows if there some progress is
made in matters of organization? Who knows if even the ants and the bees have
shown a certain "progress" in the building of their nests and in the way of
gathering and preserving honey? But the purposeful use of these gifts of
creation, positive cultural activity in accordance with the commandment given
by God with respect to purpose and eschatologically determined direction, is
possible only in an obedience regained through the Spirit of Christ. Sin,
wherever it may appear, also in cultural life, is unable to be persistently
moral in its cultural thinking, nor can it build or create in a culturally
positive way. For colere means "to build," but sin breaks down. In God's
original dictionary of revelation "culture" is always constructive, but sin is
destructive. 'We shall come back to this point later on.

As it was in the days when Paul stumbled into the city of Rome, so has it
always been in the world since then. Every reformation that, driven by the
Spirit of Christ, returns to the Scriptures, the Word of God, is at the same
time a healing of culture. When roundheaded Martin Luther at last got married
and could laugh again in a healthy way, he was worth a hundred ducats as a
healing and direction giving producer of culture, while the complete papal and
imperial train was worth hardly more than one single ducat, even considered
from the cultural point of view. This is evident when one compares the spheres
of activity of Lutheran and Roman Catholic countries. However, while Luther
made certain errors in the foundation principles, or, let us put it this way,
in the fundamentals of the relation between nature and grace -- which errors
were overcome by John Calvin -- the Calvinistic countries later exhibited a
cultural development that thetically and antithetically was far stronger and
produced far greater strength than was the case in Lutheran countries. The
cultural chaos that Adolf Hitler left behind because he first brought it with
him, could arise in Lutheran countries also with the support of "orthodox"
Lutherans, but met positive and unbreakable resistance among the Calvinistic
groups. This resistance did not weigh off "values" which can be directly
grasped and which possess a tangible usefulness against other values"
("Americanism," communism versus Nazism, real democracy versus a mythical
gesundes Volksempfinden!), but it continuously kept in mind the far reaching
protological and Eschatological history projects of the Apocalypse, which
encompass all of history, and consequently connected its cultural activities
with the fundamental principles of the Calvinistic Reformation John Calvin in
Geneva and Strasbourg shows us what the service of God is concretely able to do
also for cultural life He created a Christian culture, which had been freed
from the secularist imperialist aspirations that still render Rome's
imagination effete since they are inspired by the same false distinction
between "nature" and "grace" that played Martin Luther a trick.

As often as we think about these things it strikes us that the name which the
book of Revelation applies to the Roman Empire and which is so meaningful
precisely for cultural evaluation and examination is that of the antichristian
prototype, the name "harlot." When the Bible calls the Roman Empire a harlot
all depends on the right exegesis. The same is true when Martin Luther gives
the philosophical Seminare a hard nut to crack when speaking about die Hure
Vernunft (the harlot Reason). This was no condemnation of reason" (for a harlot
does not stand condemned because of her womanly nature) but of the proud and
sinful reason which has emancipated itself from God (just as in a harlot only
the use of her womanly nature contrary to the divine ordinance for womanhood is
to be accursed). One single false interpretation of the word "harlot" that does
no longer distinguish between the one thing and the other, is all that is
needed to throw Martin Luther -- wrongly, of course -- on the despised heap of
the despisers of God's great gift of reason in the same way, one indiscriminate
interpretation of the term "harlot" in the Apocalypse, and the Church of Rome
no longer knows in what particular respect the Roman Empire was a harlot. Was
it a harlot in its persecution of Christians? Oh no, that was only the
consequence. It was a harlot when it refused to put the created gifts at the
disposal of God. Who wants to be the Bridegroom of His faithful work community.
Then, as a consequence of such a false exegesis, a worldwide Church can become
enamoured of what ultimately is the harlotry of the Roman Empire. Then a church
presents itself that acts as "the state," idealizing the state as a cultural
power, and imitating it even at the cost of mutilating the prophetic cultural
testimony, and this way forgetting that the prophecy concerning the relation
between nature and grace (and also between nature and sin) which is faithful to
God's Word is a greater cultural force than the most astonishing Pyrrhic
victory of a culturally expansive church. Over against such a Pyrrhic victory
of Rome, John Calvin meant a restoration. He built up a Christian, Protestant,
Reformed culture, precisely by making a distinction -- which does not mean a
separation -- between church and state. He came to God's recruits with an
order-of-the-day that was also a matter of culture. He saw again that in the
Old Testament the "shepherds" had a wider task than only that of caring for
souls, for they were commissioned with cultural care as well. He again taught a
living love for the divine calling, went out into all the nooks and crannies of
the world, and had learned to understand that precious word of grace and hence
also of culture: "All things are yours . . . and ye are Christ's; and Christ is
God's" 1 Corinthians 3:21, 23).

And this is the law that shall remain in force in this world.

A church magazine that, wherever necessary, does its weeding and keeps
principles pure means more for culture than a gilded stage Over against a
minister who in a "Reformed weekly" exclaimed that sometimes one single drama
means more than seven study outlines, the Reformed distinction of
nature-grace-sin maintains that one good outline means more than seven, even
good, dramas in as much as the power of God's Word is stronger than that of the
image, and doctrine is more than sign. A Christian family, living in a
distinctively Christian style, is for cultural fife, in whatever complications
it may be placed, another revelation of the wholesome power for which one looks
in vain in Hollywood, of which a culturally sorry portrayal -- sorry especially
from a cultural point of view -- is given in Vicky Baum's book, Leben ohne
Geheimnis. A Christian labourer who dares to be himself as Christian, again
represents wholesomeness in an unhistorical, businesslike-Americanized world;
he is worth more in potential force than a complete college of science that has
not seen God.

Thus Christ continuously works in all His people until the end of time. In this
world, which has to complete its course according to His operative Easter
rights, He time and again brings to the fore new forces for cultural life in
its widest sense, performing in the republic of the communion of saints a
creative miracle: for every regeneration, acknowledged in Calvinistic fashion
as a new creation, is a matter of His transcendent and merciful intervention in
cultural life also. He continues and He will presently open new fountains as
often as in the life of an individual, or subsequently in a community, efforts
are undertaken and work is done in His power and in accordance with His
revealed Word.

Therefore the book of Revelation draws a picture of the pure
cultural-city-at-rest of the future, the new Jerusalem, with its perfect style,
a style truly satisfying its inhabitants. No, this new cultural city -- new
because of its having come into existence by renewal and its being elevated
above the level of struggle -- does not come into being gradually.

The "catastrophe" of the last day is essential for its appearance just as
'catastrophes" played a prominent role in the creation.[12] However, let us not
forget that at the moment when this catastrophe takes place, whether 'in heaven
above" or "in the earth beneath" or "in the water under the earth," all
spiritual and material potentials are already present that are necessary to
build or restore this cultural city and, then, according to His commandment,
continuously to fashion the material made available by God's providence to His
community of men, to fashion it in a logical" way -- which means here, through
the Logos Who became flesh and has declared God to us. This catastrophe itself
will not create chaos, nor destroy or trample upon any seed. On the contrary,
it will purge and purify this cosmos of every culture destroying element or
"producer" of cultural disintegration. For when God opens the new heaven, then
this new heaven will not be, so to speak, a donum super additum that has been
obtained by a new act of creation and has done away with the old creation or
covers and encloses it. This new Jerusalem will over shadow the old dwelling
place of man but not cover it like a dome. The never ending story of the wonder
of this dwelling-place of God among men will not be mechanically added and
imposed as a completely new chapter that is to follow the narrative of the
history of our world as a sort of appendix, but it shall only be an undiluted
and unrestrained Gospel report concerning the unhindered development -- given
by God in Christ -- of all those forces that were put by Christ in the new
(that is, renewed) mankind, the community of the servants of God, and were
already initially developed therein.

                                      20.

Here we briefly have to return to a point that has been touched on in the above
We said there that, strictly speaking, the granting of a licence for positive
cultural activity can occur only when people build and labour according to
God's will.

This may be too strong a statement, in many people's opinion.

We immediately admit that it needs some further amplification, even though we
have already referred to the fact that the act of colere is natural to all
people, in so far as they as a result of their innate urge to work and move
participate in the cultivation and development of the cosmos according to their
being involved as creatures in the never idle field of the world.

Yet there is a possibility of misunderstanding which must be avoided.

For after the Fall God did not split up the world into two halves, one of which
would perform cultural service according to God commandment, the other being a
desert or a chaos containing only ruins and caricatures. The mere thought is
already foolish. This idea does not only clash with the obvious facts but it
also trifles with every presupposition of cultural activity.

No real koinonia exists among men unless it has been brought about by God's
Spirit. Koinonia means communion. It does not owe its existence to the simple
fact that various people have the same nature or the same interests. For if
this in itself would establish a community, then there would be a covenant
communion everywhere. Then there could not be a hell. Those who are of the
opinion that communion is already established by the sharing of the same nature
and interests, forget that the same thing is essential also for quarrelling and
fighting with one another in such a way that the one really touches the other.
No, real communion is something else. It can only be achieved wherever the same
nature is directed towards a common goal through love for the same basic
principles and wherever the same interests are promoted in common faith and
hope and love. Cultural koinonia then, is basically a matter of the fellowship
of faith. Here our remarks concerning the antithesis to be found also in
cultural life are applicable.

However, while koinonia joins only part of mankind together, there exists a
sunousia, a being-together, among all men.

Now God has imposed sunousia upon all men Wheat and chaff have not been finally
separated from one another. One day even this sunousia will be taken away from
them. However, things have not yet reached that point. Towards all those people
placed next to each other in sunousia comes the command to engage in cultural
labour (which mandate is general because God has not abolished any command that
is original and permanent in character) just as also the urge to cultural
labour is an inborn one.

Besides, the given material to be fashioned is the world inhabited by us (and
who can say if even the world not yet inhabited by us will not become part of
our area of endeavour?). For that reason there cannot be the cultural
performance of the one without that of the other. The koinonia is given us by
Christ, the sunousia comes from God the Creator.

There is only one nature, but a twofold use of nature: one' material, but a
twofold fashioning of it; one territory, but a twofold development of it; one
cultural urge, but a twofold cultural striving.

And since all fashioning of the material, the good as well as the bad, is bound
to the nature, the structure, and the laws of that particular material, the
products of the labour of the unbeliever and those of the labour of the
believer are very much alike. This similarity is not caused by the similarity
of their diverging minds but by that of the stiff' recalcitrant material There
is a great difference between the one potter and the other, between the one
sculptor and the other. The one builds a temple, the other builds a dancing
hall, but both of them go for their clay to the same pit and for their marble
to the same quarry.

This is the first aspect.

There is also a second one.

We touch here the problem of the "common tempering." For God has arrested the
course of human sin. Now the stiffness of the material to be fashioned still
remains and shall remain to the last day. But also the will to free oneself
from the material -- Fichte in his philosophy at least dreamt of such "freedom"
-- is checked in its advance of satanic pride in this world of general
tempering. Christ (for this checking or unresisting is an act of God's
providence and, consequently, determined by the history of revelation and
salvation) has bound Satan so that he can no longer devour the nations during
the period of time indicated in Revelation 20, except in the last period of the
"thousand years" that comprise the progress from Ascension Day and Pentecost
until the Parousia. He has tempered the process of sin and curse; the
"withholding" of Antichrist is a matter of fact However, this withholding of
Antichrist corresponds with the holding-Himself in of Christ Triumphant. He
too, does not let Himself go. He, too, does not yet allow this world, which is
still tempered and held in check in all its life's movements, the view of the
full expansion of His exalted power. All the carts are still held in check, all
the horses are bridled Judgment is held back, but so is grace, in this world.

Therefore nothing is fully developed and consummated, nothing is mature as yet.
Nowhere has the power of Christ's mercy revealed itself in its full strength,
not even in heaven Neither has Satan's destructive power, according to his own
scheme, made its influence felt in full strength anywhere in tire world, not
even in hell Any kind of music, of angels as well as of demons, is
wohltemperiert, and the One Who controls it is God.

This is the mystery of the common tempering in the problem of culture (the
substratum of the above mentioned common grace and common judgment). Life has
not yet split up into the forms of hell and heaven The godless are still
prevented in their cultural labour from ecstatically raging against God in the
paroxysm of satanism, although this is in a direct line with their hidden
desire: and the communion of God's saints, partly by the sin that dwells in
them but also by the governing of their king Himself, Who is pursuing the goals
of the history of salvation and revelation, is still prevented from doing
adequately what is their line. Thus by the rule of Christ, who restrains
everything until the last day, there is, for those who serve God as well as for
those who do not serve Him, the possibility of Being simultaneously engaged in
work on one and the same cultural fragment now here, then there -- work that
takes place in sunousia and is bound by the structure of the material of the
cosmos.[13] Those who serve God and those who do not serve Him have not been
geographically separated in the world. Christ Himself keeps them still together
In this mixed and restrained world it is still possible to do constructive work
even though the constructors are not men of God. No ark was ever built by only
Noah's family. The candidates for death are always contributing their part.

However, we must also observe a third aspect: namely, that temperantia is
always constant, but the restraint or tempering is not. Until now we have
mentioned these two in the same breath. That was permissible, for God tempers
(i e., controls, guides, keeps in check) by means of restraint (by
withholding). But temperantia is a matter of governing (something which remains
for ever, also in heaven and hell, and in all ages), and restraint is a special
manner of governing (which manner may change). Revelation, chapter 20, and also
II Thessalonians, chapter 2, tell us that Satan will be loosed which will
happen within the duration of time, and that the "withholder" of Antichrist one
day (also within time) will "be taken out of the way." This restraint will
never completely be lacking in this world. For completely absent it will be in
heaven and in hell. However, within the duration of time it will not be of a
constant measure The one day it is stronger that the other. In certain periods,
God hands the people over to their delusive ideas, and sends (!) them an
"energy" of error (with horrible cultural effects), and in other periods He
awakens in His Church the Spirit of repentance and conversion, Who sometimes
causes the impact of the preaching of God's Word to penetrate very deeply even
into the circles of the unbelievers. This restraint, then, Will decrease to a
minimum at the end of time Then any status quo existing between the Church and
the world will be denounced -- from both sides -- also in cultural life, even
precisely there. Then the whole world -- except God's elect -- will crowd
together around the Antichrist. Then his (cultural) miracles -- which God
allows him to perform by His active permission, that is, by making cosmic
material (with its inherent possibilities, as discovered with astonishing
speed) freely accessible -- will, as so many signs and wonders of falsehood,
brush aside the Church with its proclamation of the truth and push it into the
distant corner of antiques and of separatist, rectilinear-minded fanatics. Then
the flames of the cultural struggle will flare up as never before: the
propaganda of falsehood will appear to be "supported" by some dazzling facts,
while the propagation of the truth will be solely dependent on the faithful
Word that under those circumstances shows its confessors the meaning of the
"hard" saying: "Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed"
(John 20:29).

We are living in an interim to be so understood, in the interim of the-interim.

We have already discussed the former: the interim between the first and the
last things of ("ordinary") history.

The latter has been indicated in the above: it is the interim between the not
yet anti Christian era and the presently indeed anti-Christian parousia of the
one man of Sill, the great cultural hero though hero in sin, escorted by the
propaganda department of the false prophet: the beast from the earth
(Revelation, chapter 13).

May the knowledge thereof make the believers careful as never before. Even when
the cultural forms are the same, he should distinguish the differences in
cultural direction.

For when under the impact of the law of tempering and the restraint by God
there is "still" a possibility of a wide scope of development of science and
art of trade and industry, of national and international communication. of
technology or whatever else, then this is indeed "still" "culture" to a certain
degree. But this "still" is determined by the fact that Satan has "not yet"
been loosed. Who does not feel the drift towards the end of the
interim-of-the-interim when he has heard Bach and ... jazz? In so far as
cultural activities are not driven by faith not done according to the Law of
God and to His honour, they operate with corrupt "remnants," and are in fact a
mere residue. The material (of Genesis 1, cosmic nature) has remained. And
there are still remnants, residues, of the original gifts.

The word residues" is, of course, not meant only in a quantitative sense, for
although there are still some quantitatively measurable remnants" of the
original gifts left, the quantitative can shrivel up and will indeed do so.
Therefore these remnants are also called vestigia, or vestiges, i.e.
footprints. "Vestigia" is not a quantitative concept, for the footprints left
by a dog's paw or a man's shoe are not remnants thereof. Acknowledging the
double fact that there will always be remnants of the original gifts -- the
tempering is constant -- but that they will become smaller and smaller and the
"light of nature" more and more suppressed (Canons of Dort), and that (for the
believer, according to the strength of his faith understanding) there will
always be clear vestigia in this drunken world, vestiges of the paradisal gifts
(even in anti-christian cultural infatuation), we nevertheless speak, in this
sense and with these reservations, of remnants and vestigia. Our conclusion
then is that culture is never more than a mere attempt and that, since it is
restricted to remnants only it is a matter of tragedy. God has indeed left
something behind in fallen man But these are only "small remnants" of man's
original gifts, concerning which the Calvinistic confession speaks in such a
brilliant-dangerous way."^ [14] Even when they have been reduced to their
minimum or defiled to their maximum (Canons of Dort), they are still vestiges.
In the imminent pandemonium of the cultural revolution against God and His
Anointed, the believer shall discover the vestigia of the riches of paradisal
life -- but he alone. The anti-christian cohorts shall not see therein the
vestiges of "yesterday," but only the primitiae, the firstlings of "tomorrow,"
for which tomorrow they hope (in vain), and which is cut off by the heavenly
Judge. Until then we Christians shall continue to build, in hope against hope
-- just as Noah built the ark, in his "last days." We know it: these remnants,
taking effect in a world that is "withheld" by God according to the measure of
all His times and wherein not a single volcano of sin, not a single hearth of
grace, can empty itself in an absolute, and adequate way, a world that day
after day is preserved against the summum of its own destruction, and is
continuously protected against the unlimited success of its own destructive
tendencies -- these residues of such a world are still able, according to the
scheme of development and restraint that Christ's Sender maintains in the
Christological progress of all history, to instigate new cultural
contributions, as long as it pleases Him. This is an instigation the
possibility of which was already given in the paradisal world, and which has
its kairos only because Christ has His own aim and intention with the world and
has reserved it unto the fires of judgment day. However, the residues in
question can never force a break-through, or, what is even worse, they can
never produce any work that is sound, accurately directed to meet its
objective, and due to its style, not even work that is true to nature. For
bound to nature is entirely different from due to nature. In one's acting (in a
responsible way and intervening in history) one is only due to nature when one
is ethically faithful to its Maker. A culture that wants to maintain itself
apart from God cannot reach consummation if it constantly continues to follow
the course it has chosen It never can come to unity. It will never mature. All
through the centuries it consumes and scatters itself. The unregenerate detains
what he retains (he holds it in unrighteousness, Romans 1:18; Canons of Dort
III/IV, Article 4). A single continuing style has never been born wherever
Christ was not acknowledged as the Legislator. Time and again the monster of
immanent cultural paralysis appears alongside the cultural tendencies that have
made themselves felt. In nations, races and societies: the architects may be
building, but the original design has been lost. They are building
fragmentarily. Every century has its own fin-de-siecle. All that which is heavy
becomes top heavy. With the help of cultural instruments -- take. e.g. the
cinema, which was the result of cultural building but which, once it was there,
should have been a cultural instrument and then could have kept its place in
the pedagogic whole -- people are not going to build but to destroy: they will
rob God. Every builder will become bankrupt as soon as his employees fall in
love with their tools, refine and "cultivate" them for their own sake but in
the meantime show no love for the activity of building. Those who remember this
know: our Chief Builder (God) will never go bankrupt, but yet He has a
multitude of that contemptible sort of bricklayers and labourers, also among
His Christian people. For even among them there are fools who concerning any
cultural instrument cry out: the cultivation of it is real culture! They feel
ashamed not to join in with others. But this is foolishness. The cultivation of
a cultural instrument in itself and for its own sake is nothing but idolatry --
it falls under the same heading as the worship of idols, which also includes
the personalism that we rejected earlier. A film for the sake of the film,
sports for the sake of sports, fine arts for the sake of fine arts, all have
had something to do with culture; but the technique of cultivating these
so-called "territories" (oh dear!). apart from the goal and from the whole of
the one universal territory of operation of the world that must be brought back
to God, is as an activity not a matter of building but of breaking down: agape 
for the cultural goal then yields to eros with respect to the cultural means.
With the help of a hammer one can build but also destroy. So this world is
destroyed not by sports, the cinema, etc., but by their being isolated as
goods-in-themselves. The movies in our days are being technically perfected
more and more. However, the cinema is not a constructive but a destructive
thing. Instead of being a medium of education it has become a means of blinding
the people's eyes. Whoever calls this activity culture because the cinema
originates in cultural power, forgets that colere still means to build or
cultivate," not to break down." Even Satan can only fight against us with the
help of the material that is available to him in the world of our sunousia. 
Concerning the Antichrist the same thing can be said. The beast of Revelation
13 does not enter into our world as through a funnel but has been with us in
our sunousia from our very birth.

                                      21.

It is true that in the last days when God abolishes the Interim-law of His
restraint and in an acute dramatic tension will rapidly bring upon the world
the catastrophe of the great judgment, the Antichrist will set up a plan of
action in order quickly to put over against any aspect of culture that is still
slightly reminiscent of Christian influence an anti-culture of sin before the
eyes of the world and that he will try to complete an and programme. But in
order that we may be able to understand what this means for our subject, we
have to pay attention to two things: First, the Antichrist is a dictator.
Second, he will be thrown from the battlements, on which he is glorifying
himself, "halfway through his days."

In the first place he is, as we said, a dictator. This means that the origins
of his activities, also of his demonic anti-culture plans, do not proceed along
the normal ways of development from what already exists, but are by force
thrust upon a world that is divided against itself. According to the strict
rules of the logic of God's judgment of hardening the hearts as it is passed on
the world, God Himself will enable him thereto. The "democratic" world shall
undergo its punishment when it ends up with the Guilt Dictator. How and whereby
will God enable him to do this evil work? By His above mentioned "active
permission," which grants to the Antichrist the making of as many discoveries
as are needed for the "miracles of Antichrist" (11 Thessalonians 2, Revelation
13). He will show off with them: the materials of the cosmos will presently be
used in the grandiose game of the ultimate, organized immorality. The
infatuation with cultural fragments, cultural Dashes, and cultural instruments
-- barely registered, because they were miraculously invented -- will then push
its way through and develop into the most frivolous exhibitionism, a carnival
of immorality, unashamed and respecting neither God nor man. "Colere" will come
to an end, the setting of long term goals will cease, and, because of the mere
infatuation with cultural things, the cultural commission as God gave it will
be rejected. But we must add: this hard reality will not be acknowledged unless
among the greatly reduced number of the last, persecuted Christians. This
infatuation with cultural things will identify as the cultural mandate the
praise of man for man. Those who do not join in the singing of this praise will
be sentenced as spoilsports: dictators know no mercy.

And the fact which we mentioned in the second place, that in God's judgment the
Antichrist will be thrown from the high battlements "halfway through his days,"
proves that the development of his own style can not be finished and his
programme not completed. Any culture of infatuation excludes real love and must
disappear as smoke is driven away, for it is the final convulsive twitch of
'the wicked" of Psalm 68. This will mean punishment for the Antichrist, his
judgment. Yes, indeed But it will at the same time mean the revelation of his
impotence: every judgment corresponds with the immanent condition of the person
concerned.

Therefore it is so appropriate that the last book of the Bible tells us that
the figure 7 fits the work of God, as also the number 1000, the number of
perfect completion, but that the Antichrist can get no further than the figure
3Â«. That is to say, halfway (for 3Â« is half of 7) his work will be broken,
together with himself The "culture" of the Antichrist will presently leave in
its wake only torsos, when the horizon bursts aflame with the fire that will be
seen even at the shore of the sea of glass, the fire of God's judgment. The
antichristian cultural fun fair of the Serious Game, in honour of Homo Ludens,
that idol, shall be the last spasmodic effort of man, who was created with the
natural ability of a schematic mind, schematically (that is, in satanic and
even satanistic style) to put over against God's coetus an anti-congregation.
But the Bible, by writing the number 3Â« upon the glossy cultural products of
this final "cultural struggle" and convulsion of sin, shows that the cultural
structure of the last days is only a truncated pyramid.

Hereby shall be confirmed for the eye of faith what we have already stated,
namely, that no one is able to build ecumenically, to colere homogeneously and
continuously in the actual eschatologicalIy determined sense of the word,
unless he lives and works "from" God. Neither can any kind of community.

                                      22.

Over against the dismal picture of such a truncated pyramid stands the
initially true-to-norm structure of the Church and the Kingdom of heaven, as
far as the Word of God rules and prevails there.

This Kingdom prepared itself for the pain to be endured at the sight of this
truncated pyramid. As often as the people of Israel or their kings forgot that
the nation was also Church and that the Church in every struggle, including the
cultural one, can only conquer through faith -- that is, by joyfully accepting
the contents of the revelation with which it has been entrusted -- this nation
alone with its royal house stood in tears at the sight of the stump of a once
stately tree. David's house Israel's national building, became such a stump. It
became such particularly in cultural respect: the Babylonian exile, Jerusalem's
destruction. Then the people, who had looked up to the culture of the
"civilized nations" (the heathen), who had been eager to compete with them and
to outbid them in the market of culture, said: Alas, no rod shall come forth
out of the stem of Jesse! Who has ever seen anything so impossible? But then
the prophets said: "Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine eyes from tears"
(Jeremiah 31:16). And Ezekiel had to become a sign unto the people who saw the
destruction of the desire of their eyes -- the desire of eyes that see cultural
quantities only. He himself also lost the desire of his eyes (his wife) but was
not allowed to mourn (Ezekiel 24:1625). Why not? Because for the faithful
covenant congregation, which would take the Word of the covenant seriously
again (Jeremiah 31), a rod would presently sprout forth out of the truncated
stem, a "Branch," which would be the Christ, the Good Shepherd. He is a
Shepherd because He provides in every need, also in cultural needs: Thy bread
and thy waters shall be sure (Isaiah 33:16).

There we have the cultural activity of the faithful Church members: it is
according to God's promise. This promise is of a cultural nature also: it has
been given through grace and through the Gospel. This gift-of-grace will be
"sufficient": "My grace is sufficient for thee" (11 Corinthians 12:9)
Sufficient to what end? Sufficient to reach the end of time in faithfulness to
one's office and not to lose sight of colere or of the God Who always wants to
be worshipped by His creatures.

We just said: it is sufficient Is it not cultural pride to say that grace is
sufficient? This is what "Neo-Calvinism" is reproached with.

No, we do not encourage any Christian cultural pride. For we said no more than
that grace is sufficient. Besides, we acknowledged that also the Church and the
Kingdom of God are living under the universal pressure of the law of restraint,
this Sharp Resolution of Mitigation issued by Christ the King. Even the
believers never finish their cultural endeavours. They, too, have their
truncated pyramids. There is much patchwork in what they are doing. No this is
no reason for pride. For as a matter of fact the numbers 7 and 1000 fit God's
Kingdom and Church not because they involve or include human labour but only
because in both numbers Christ is effectively active with His Spirit. But -- by
this Christ has this great reality at least been proved: that sound and
purposeful structure, norm-fast style, harmonious culture are present, truly
present, only there where God by special grace again creates living people from
the dead and where men of God are "furnished unto all good works" (11 Timothy
3:17): there, moreover, wherever He mutually binds them and their works
together. For teleologically-directed cultural construction is not an affair of
individuals but of a strong communion. Therefore the article of our faith
concerning "the communion of saints" (the koinonia) is also of direct
significance for culture. And a schism in the Church -- a true schism, not what
hierarchy makes of it -- always means cultural destruction. On the other hand,
Church reformation, even though the number of confessors may dwindle, is always
cultural restoration also. And when those true confessors are boycotted and
with violence removed from the workshops and funds of culture, they will still
be evangelists, signposts of culture, even though they have been thrown aside.
For the only one who may truly be called a source of culture is Jesus Christ.

We realize that this standpoint has been called "impertinent".

However, those who made such statements do not share our "creed." They do not
know a Word of God that effectually enters into history in a historical way;
that is, continuously producing fruits from its own seed. The 'Word of God" as
they consider it is no "seed of regeneration" In their view, no "chain of
salvation" is forged here, under the clouds of heaven. What produces fruits,
thirty, sixty, and even hundred-fold, here below, can in their opinion never
have been seed from above.

We shall not further deal with this theory. We would be able seriously to
oppose Barthianism only if we had been given more space than is available here.

However, let no one delude himself with the idea that this would be a clash of
arguments only. For at bottom we have to make here a decision of faith. Either
one acknowledges the Scriptures as the Word of God, or one does not acknowledge
them as such. We very well realize that, as soon as we are deprived of the
Scriptures, our standpoint cannot produce any proof for its being correct --
just as the other standpoint cannot do so. But we do not want to make anything
but a statement of faith, also this time. Not only matters concerning the
Church and the forgiveness of sins are matters of faith, but of all things it
must be said that they are only known through faith and not by "experience."
Even questions regarding the "substance" and "appearance" of culture are
answered by faith only. Concepts such as a "communion" and "to build" are
matters of faith: if the confession had nothing to say concerning them, it
would not deserve its name.

But because we accept this standpoint as the Biblical one, we do not shrink
from its consequences.

Let us mention a few of them.

                                      23.

The first one is that, strictly speaking, it is incorrect to speak of "the"
culture, of culture as such. This way of speaking uses an imaginary quantity:
that is to say, in so far as it might suggest that there is unity of cultural
endeavour. This unity is lacking even transcendentally." Just as there is no
"reine" Vernunft ("pure" reason), no reine Verstand uberhaupt (pure intellect
in general), there is no such thing as reine Kultur (pure culture). Although
nature is one, there is more than one use and cultivation of nature. To will is
inherent in man, also culturally; it belongs to his nature. But cultural
striving is more than to will: it includes long-term and long-distance
objectives.

Having arrived at this point, we again meet with the antithesis and with the
curse that is the result of sin, the curse of disintegration and scattering.
The world still dreams of a tower of Babel, and still its language is
confounded wherever this great project is undertaken, it no longer occurs in
the same striking way as at the first Tower of Babel. It happens more gradually
now. The punishment is never so severe nor the curse so immense as when things
go this gradual way. In principle there is again some einheitlich (unified)
cultural producing, born from the Spirit of God. But because the unbeliever,
that great sectarian, turns away from it -- while nevertheless at the
approaches to the cultural material to be fashioned he more and more posts his
sentries, who turn back everyone that is unable or unwilling to produce the
password of sin (presently this will be the name of the beast) -- therefore the
culture that is built through faith will cover smaller and smaller areas. This
culture is einheitlich, but of the material that affords "opportunities" for
the cultural impulse it uses no more than fragments only. The world of
unbelieving schismatics -- sin is schismatic -- does not want it any other way.
Over against this stands the fact that this schismatic "world" itself, even
though it conquers all the approaches towards the natural sources, the material
to be fashioned and cultivated and the already discovered cultural means,
because of its sinful character and the inherent destruction of communion,
produces no more than mere cultural fragments in its presently almost universal
cultural territory. With the believers there is unity in labour but only
fragmentation of work areas. With the unbelievers there is a unified work area
but fragmentation of the work: fragments, torsos, exponents of the diverging
aspirations and endeavours which are not out of God, contradict each other,
cancel each other out, and are never able to consolidate themselves into a
unity. For the imposed unity of the totalitarian antichristian state will not
last long: if it were not imposed, this sham unity would fall to pieces.

We have already seen it. partly with a feeling of shame: even culture that is
in accordance with the will of God shall not reach completion before judgment
day. As far as this is a matter of the universal law of the already discussed
retardation of powers, the "restraint," it makes us humble: our life is but
short and we are dependent on the "climate" in which we are born. As far as
this is a matter of being plundered by "the world" that ousts us from the
"territory" still to be cultivated, we have to carry Christ's cross. As far as
it is a matter of the sin of us all, which (we now follow the infralapsarian
line) has from alpha to omega disturbed the gradual development of the first
given (cultural) world, and now makes unavoidable the sharply rising and
falling line in the curve of the retardation of beast and Spirit, we have to
profess our sin in Adam before God. And as far as the fact that we cannot
finish our task is more a matter of our directly individual sin and of our
slothfulness and unwisdom, we have to do penance for that and the more exert
ourselves in working towards a sound, rich, and broad cultural life as long as
this is still possible. For Christ puts before us the duty of cultural activity
. Not to join in cultural labour means willful disobedience on the part of
God's labourers. It means not to serve God in what belongs to Him.

But we also have to distinguish God's governing hand in the fact that "culture
as such," that of the believers no less than that of tire unbelievers, cannot
be finished, for God does not let any power fully develop itself, not even the
power of Christ and His Spirit, before the great catastrophe of the last
judgment Retardation, we said is the will of Christ and the law set for the
Antichrist until the hour of Christ's parousia has come. Against a "law," a
fixed ordinance, man's power can do nothing. We cannot so challenge the bull
that he will enter the arena before the set time. We cannot avert God's
restraining hand. Heavy as well as lightening, oppressive but with the
unbreakable intention of God to grant us as yet "times of refreshing," it hangs
over the world and its bustle but let us not forget: this law works also in an
evangelical way. It is of a Christological nature, God does not permit the
thermometers of culture to be broken by premature heat also for this reason:
that He is waiting for the last one of the elect, as well as for the latter's
opposite. the last reprobate. Both have yet to he born in this world. They will
yet have to he surrounded by the earth's protecting atmosphere that grants them
a place and without which no one can ever do any work. They must be immersed
into the temperance-atmosphere that still tempers the hot glow of the heavy
wrath of redemption in order that at the very end of the lengthy course of time
they may fulfill the counsel of God with regard to themselves contending with
each other in a life-and-death struggle the one armed the other unarmed each of
them obeying a different command. Is there not in this retardation in the
atmosphere's not being rent apart an awful kind of wrath apart from astonishing
grace? The retarding power lies upon world life as an atmospheric pressure. The
balance will not be broken and the atmosphere not be rent before those last two
will have completed their course. Then all those who are out of the second Adam
will be allowed to take with them for ever the fruits of the cultural struggle
as far as God's new world will make room for them. Then they will enter into
the world of full satisfaction which precisely as such does enjoy fruits of
culture hut has passed beyond all cultural striving. Then, but not before.

                                      24.

A second consequence of the standpoint we have taken is that in our discussion
concerning the Christian and culture we must also not proceed from the fiction
of "culture as such." There is not one single "cultural substance" certain
"forms" of which we meet with or ourselves might "be." There is no universal
soul or spirit or reason or logos All these terms are mere abstractions. They
would be more or less harmless if they were not always related to the
pantheistic idea that the moral law accompanies universal culture itself
because in culture "God" becomes "Self conscious" and therein determines
Himself. Over against this the Christian professes that God does not come into
existence but that He is there that He has made His counsel from eternity and
still makes it and that He imposes His moral law from above. To this law we are
bound in our actions. They are actions either of the new man that has been
created by God or of the old man that has been dislocated by Satan. Therefore
we are not trying to find a practical counterbalance in a Christian adaptation
(supposing that such were possible) of a novel about la peur de vivre over
against the crypto-vitalistic designs of a "Christianized" touched up version
of Pallieter for example. We must serve God everyone in his own way wearing
either a leather apron or an academic gown -- it does not make any difference.
Everyone has to serve God wearing rubber hoots or carrying a gasoline can
having as emblem a hammer and sickle (these belong to us) or a painter's
palette rather than a censer as such. We have to serve God everyone in his own
place in the new God-created community. "In his own place" means here:
according to his own calling. For calling not aspiration without inspiration
determines what is "ours." We have to detest thoroughly the forming of any
group that fixes its limits and its criteria for membership while leaving the
matter of divine calling beyond consideration. Everyone's individual character
or disposition must be on its guard against the danger of selfishly growing
beyond its limits and must try to fit into the structure of the communion for
which divine calling (to be known from the Scriptures and from the course of
our life) books us a place. To establish koinonia in the sunousia, as members
of the mystical union of Jesus Christ, that is Christian culture.

                                      25.

A third consequence of our standpoint regards the matter of abstention from
cultural endeavour. Is there room for that? And if so. how far, why, and to
what end?

This problem has many aspects, too many to sum up here. A few remarks may here
suffice.

First of all, we must emphasize that, since there is a cultural mandate that
existed even prior to sin, abstention from cultural labour is always sin: those
who abstain from it are on strike. And now that Christ has comprised in Himself
all the real treasures of "culture" -- that is, of "grace" -- abstention for
the sake of abstention is nothing but a renunciation of Christ, self imposed
poverty, and sin before God. In this sense a Christian's abstention in cultural
affairs should never be preached. "Every creature of God is good, if it be
received with thanksgiving: for it is sanctified by the Word of God and prayer"
(I Timothy 4:4, 5) It says: every creature.

The products of God's hands are not the same as ours: His "corn and wine"
differ from our malt products or our distilled liquor And precisely because
every creature of God is sanctified by "the Word of God" (God's speaking to us)
and by "prayer" (our speaking to Him), that is to say, in real covenant
fellowship, abstention from cultural labour, or, in other words, the refusal to
let God's creature appear in the covenant communion with God, is nothing but a
matter of narrowing this communion. And what do we usually say about love that
narrows its fellowship arbitrarily?

There is also a type of abstinence in which the faithful avoids certain areas
of culture because he finds it too difficult to pursue God's command in those
areas, deems himself incapable, considers the high pressure of being subject to
God's Law too burdensome, and for this reason avoids that particular area It
should be clear that such abstinence is sinful He avoids the cultural zone
concerned because he does not want a conflict with God's Law However, this
abstinence is in reality an avoidance of God Himself. The person in question
does not wish to get into trouble with Him, the Legislator, but at the same
time he fails to let God show him His will. Renunciation of cultural
participation may never be desired for its own sake. It can be justified and
imperative only when it is imposed on us as an emergency measure.

For there will indeed be an emergency situation until the end of time. And this
emergency situation will gradually grow even worse, for it is war-time.

Because of the war which God still wages against sin, and which sin wages
against God, there is nowhere a possibility a simultaneous, harmonious and
centrally guided development of all cultural forces. Just as the normal
development of the forces inherent in the life of a nation that is involved in
a war is only possible as soon as the weapons are put down, so the community of
the new mankind can find its "rest" only in normal labour on the new earth.
Then the war will be over.

This war-motif shows us still another aspect of the matter of abstinence. God
has millions of people in His creation, but only a part of those millions even
begins to fulfill its duties. Therefore the communion of God's faithful
children is much more heavily burdened than they ever would be if all people
feared and served God. In our days frequent complaints are heard from the side
of the unbelievers about the unequal distribution of goods. But those who
complain about this apart from God are basically doing the very thing which
they reproach society with. Go and take an evening walk past the movie
theatres, have a look at the flashing signs and see how even the paupers in
large numbers pay their two quarters. Think about the huge organization behind
this powerless "cultural labour," which unfortunately is usually done in an
unchristian way, and in this single example you will see proof of a God-less
distribution of goods. The Christian labourer who toils to save a quarter and
on Sunday puts it into the collection bag for mission work, is also engaged in
"culture," be it indirectly. Half of this amount would have been enough for him
to give if the idlers who spend their two quarters in the theatre had been able
to find the dividing line between entertainment and labour, creative effort and
recreation, The sums of money that are offered for one single bad film have
been taken from, e.g., mission work, which is also cultural labour, although
not exclusively. These few examples may illustrate the fact that Christians as
a community are heavily burdened with respect to education, mission, Church
life, charity, etc. At every step they are accompanied by abnormality, for the
son who works in his Father's vineyard is overburdened because his brother who
does not work is unfaithful to the Father.

Therefore, cultural abstinence, in whatever form and regarding whatever detail,
as far as it originates in resentment, laziness, diffidence, slackness, or
narrow mindedness, is sin before God. Unfortunately we must admit that in this
regard the unbelieving world often rightly criticizes us. For quite apart from
the resentment that makes even Christians run down things they never can
accomplish themselves, a quasi edifying Pietism has all too often forgotten --
and even branded as heresy -- that the work of redemption leading us back to
the "original" things imposes on the new man the duty of cultural labour. But
on the other hand, in as far as the criticizing unbelievers by neglecting their
calling, are in fact on strike themselves and in cultural matters always
decline a normal division of labour, Christians who consciously abstain are
heroes when they resort to their negative "asceticism" to preserve the
positive, their training for the forthcoming performance of their duties,
putting first and foremost that whereto they are in particular called. A
Christian people maintaining their colleges, supporting missionaries, and
caring for the needy who were left them by Christ, thus saving them from the
clutches of state absolutism (that pioneer of the Antichrist!), doing a
thousand other works of divine obligation, and primarily because of all this
not able, for example, to set up an imposing Christian stage, supposing that
such were possible, or to establish an extensive Christian organization of
aesthetic and artistic character, such a people is indeed a heroic communion.
When it voluntarily abstains for this reason, such abstention is, among other
things, self control and also self denial self development of the man of God
who wants to remain engaged in that whereto he has been called. Others may mock
him, but he is herein dominated by a broad cultural insight. For his abstention
because of the emergency situation places time under the arch of the history of
the beginning as well as of the end. This sort of abstention should not be
typified with the word "resentment," but finds its limits and legitimation in,
e.g., Matthew 19:12, where Christ speaks about those "that make themselves
eunuchs for the Kingdom of heaven's sake" and not m order to avoid this
Kingdom. It recognizes itself in the scene presented in Revelation 12. There
the woman (the Church) goes into the desert. Yet she -- for she goes into the
desert after Christ's ascension into heaven, at the beginning of the "thousand
years" of His glorious reign -- yet she has been liberated by the Son of man.
She has the rights of Sarah, the free woman. But she suffers hunger in the
desert together with Hagar, the bond woman. Her voluntary abstinence is
definitely no negation of her hereditary rights, but the maintaining of her own
style and a matter of taking in hand a cultural task which the majority of
people never take into consideration the service of God in the full extent of
human life, hic et nunc, according to the occasion (kairos) of Christ's time
(chronos).

It is war-time, even in our own heart. Also for this reason abstention may time
and again be a duty for the individual person in very distinct respects that
are individually to be more closely determined at every turn: hence the eye
that is plucked out, the hand or the foot that is cut off, the field or the
family that is left behind, the maimed body, the lonely soul, and all this for
the sake of God's Kingdom. But this is again no abstention for the sake of
abstention. It is a powerful effort to prevent an onerous distemperance from
letting the lower lord it over the higher. In other words, it is not a matter
of indifference to style, or hostility to culture, but, on the contrary, of
culture in style, training and activation, self-temperance of the man of (God
in and unto service in the broadest sense.

                                      26.

A fourth consequence is that even within the framework of an inexact, non
scientific, popular parlance it is definitely incorrect to characterize the
problem of "Christ and culture" as that of "common grace."

We have already expressed as our opinion that in an exact, conceptual
description of our belief there is no room for the term "common grace," at
least not in the Kuyperian sense, in which "common grace" is identified with
"universal grace". We shall not elaborate further on this.

However, one could ask: Who is always prepared to produce an exact concept? Who
is able to use a parlance that is fully adequate? Who is able to write one
single page without using figurative language? In a certain definition, be it
inexact but joyfully showing thanks for what is still left to us, could a
cumulation of the vestiges of the creation gifts, and "natural light" and its
use, not be called "grace"? Are we not permitted to take one single step
together with the Remonstrants or Arminians, who (according to the Canons of
non) designated "natural light" as "common grace"?

Our answer to this good natured question is this time not so good natured. This
time we say no, and we believe that experience has taught a lesson here.

For in the first place there is some difference between "the glimmerings of
natural light" that "remained" in man and the use of this light. The epic
recitals in which Abraham Kuyper is presented as extolling common grace in the
arts and sciences have more than once neglected the distinction between light
and its use. But as soon as one raises the question what "grace" actually is,
this distinction is of the greatest significance.

But apart from what we have said before, we have still another objection
against the one sided use of the word "grace". Nowadays we quite often hear
people speak slightingly of "rectilinear" thought and of "single track
theology." Usually we then have some difficulty in keeping ourselves composed.
It causes some extra difficulty when we hear this from certain authors who
function as apologists of the Reformed Synods in The Netherlands in the years
1942-1944 (and even after 1946) and therefore march against those who really
could not (to the exclusion of any differing view) hold the children of the
covenant to be rectilinear.[15] Sometimes we hear those apologists fulminate
against the "rectilinear" and "single track" thinking of their opponents. But
they themselves had to promise (and with respect to this promise nothing
changed) that they would not teach anything which was not in full agreement
also with the synodical declaration of the year 1942 that took the trouble to
assure us that "among us" (meant were those of Reformed confession) such
residues in man as the "light of nature" were really called by the same name
which also the Remonstrants used: common grace.

Well this is too rectilinear to suit us. This reminds us of a single track
railway line For "grace," being undeserved, forfeited "favour," is, then, a
word related to the idea of what is permissible. Therefore many Christians have
come to look upon the cultural problem as a question of what is and what is not
permissible.

Hence the numerous accidents.

For in our opinion -- and our whole argumentation confirms it -- our cultural
mandate must be primarily seen as a matter of a "common command," a "common
calling," a "common mandate". Here our may is our must. Our above-explained
standpoint shows the cultural question to be, even before the Fall, a question
of duty, a mandate from the very beginning, a creature's service to God. And
when the Heidelberg Catechism correctly and with full emphasis states that God
does not wrong man when He requires of him that which had already been imposed
on him in paradise, even though he cannot do it any more, then this answer
turns its sharp edge against those who let their theory of "common grace" teach
only and exclusively about that which by God's charter has been left to us as
being permissible. Dress the garden -- God does not wrong any man when He still
requires the same thing of him, even though he cannot do it.

All this is closely connected with more than one important theorem, also of
methodological structure The doctrine of common grace that takes "grace" as its
starting point, has chosen as the starting point for its problematic the things
that after the Fall have been left to us. But here it makes more than one
mistake. Without neglecting what happened after the Fall, it has to go back to
what happened before the Fall in order to understand God's intentions. Further,
time and again it speaks about that which has yet been left to us, us men, as
if men were the more important here, rather than God. This theory is more
anthropocentric than theological. And by making this mistake it necessarily
makes a third one: it starts to broadcast culturally optimistic sounds in a
culpable way. For "nature" (as the material to be fashioned or developed by
man) has never been given to us, but it has been put at our disposal -- just as
a shipping line puts a ship at a captain's disposal in order that he may work
for the company in the shipping business; the ship is not a gift. When God lets
us remain as part of His creation and when nature continues to co-exist with
us, then the man who feels rich because of what he once possessed will say:
Many permissible things have yet been left to me. The other, who would never
deny that he loves his work and enjoys life as a feast, says in his turn: Be on
your guard against single track theology. For the man who realizes he has been
appointed by God as a captain of the ship of the eternal Ship-owner has to
admit: I have received firm mandates: there is still work to be done. As for
nature -- of which I am part, together with my cultural urge -- many things
must still happen to it before the world will perish: or, rather, will be
transferred (into a different mode of existence). The mandate to develop it in
and outside myself as God's office-bearer has never been withdrawn -- which is
a serious warning against Pallieter-axiology.

Culture is a question of must It, too, fell under the original "command of
life," of life in its broadest sense. This expression does not mean that there
is a command: Live! Nor is it: Man, dare to live! But it means that there is a
command that does itself impart life to everyone who obeys it.

Therefore the contents of our cultural calling are never determined by our
aptitudes or tastes, as if these could determine the norms, for the primary
calling is for everyone: to be sound and whole, teleios in the sense of
Christ's saying to us: be ye therefore perfect, fully grown, human but never
humanistic. Everyone, together with all that belongs to him and with what
belongs to the community, has to present himself before God. Not everyone has
the aptitudes required for participation in every cultural phenomenon. Variety
of natural abilities is not culpable However, not to posses the ability to
engage directly in one cultural field or another (e.g., music) is not the same
as willfully to exclude oneself from it. To look upon the cultural struggle as
a whole without showing any interest is the opposite of striving for
service-conscious training.

Therefore we cannot agree with those who, with Abraham Kuyper, state that
Christianity or Calvinism cannot and should not design its own artistic style.
Someone has said that Calvinism has failed to develop its own artistic style
because its concern is religion and it was forced to leave the "lower" things
in favour of the "higher" ones, or at least was not able to develop the former.
In our opinion the danger of once again separating religion and culture is
imminent here. Besides, the impression is then created that it would be
possible to design a style for the one "area of life" and not for the other.
"Style" is always first a matter of the whole building, and only then of its
respective parts. If a Calvinist can speak of a life-style, he can also speak
of an artistic style. We are afraid that the founder of the Free University has
limited its task too much 1 he service of God is above all creative, shaping,
and also stylizing In so far as Calvinism -- to mention no more -- did not
develop its own style in any field, this shortcoming is partly (for the above
made reservation is still in force) a sign of weakness If culture is a matter
of the everyday service of God, this calling is and remains inexorable, within
the limits of each period of the history of salvation as these limits are set
by Christ's governing, and everyone has to strive to be a whole and complete
man, proportionally and in cooperative relationships set up according to norms
that correspond with their purposes. For this calling is never without social
effect.

                                      27.

Because the balloting norms of these cooperative communities are their peculiar
norms, derived from the Law, the preaching and administration of which has been
entrusted to the communion of saints, therefore the fifth consequence of our
stand point has to be the deep reverence which, also from the cultural
viewpoint, may be demanded for the Church.

As the King of the Church, Christ is the King of the whole world also, the One
Who completes nature in its history (for Rickert[16] rightly reminds us of the
fact that nature, too, has a history), God's Ambassador, who wants to lay down
at God's feet all the results of the cosmic process of development and
recruitment, and consequently He is also the Governor of culture, and the Judge
and Redeemer of its organs In Him God will "recapitulate" all things (Ephesians
1:10).

We just mentioned Ephesians 1:10 and spoke of a "universal recapitulation." In
order to be able to answer the question what particular place Christ has been
given with respect to the also culturally to be determined "summary of
history," Paul's statement briefly deserves our attention It says: ". . . that
in the dispensation of the fullness of times He might gather together in one
all things in Christ." We have derived the phrase "universal recapitulation"
from, among others, a translation of Paul's statement as it was quoted by
Irenaeus, one of the "Church fathers" (this questionable term is still used to
designate children-of-the-Church of a not always harmless kind). Irenaeus (c.
140-c. 202 A.D.) once discussed Christ's ascension into heaven and His sitting
at God's right hand with reference to Ephesians 1:10. Where Paul says that
Christ will return in order to "gather together in one" all things, Irenaeus'
Greek text uses the word anakephalaiosasthai, which in the excellent Latin text
of Rouet de Journel is rendered as the Latin verb "to recapitulate."

Ascension Day, seen in this light, means the beginning of this universal
recapitulation.

Does this word help us at all? That depends on the question whether in the
rendering of Paul's own word in Ephesians 1:10 it accurately conveys the kernel
of the matter. The Vulgate (the official Bible version of the Church of Rome)
makes use of a different term in Ephesians 1:10 (instauration) -- all the more
a reason why the word "recapitulation" calls for our attention.

Many[17] have made use of it. We shall give here just a few examples which at
the same time show us what Paul intended to say.

John Owen (Works, 1, 147) refers to Ephesians 1:10 when he expresses the
opinion that the angels are included in the "recovery" and recapitulation of
all things which God has given in Christ. Subsequently, he devotes a lengthy
treatise to this subject, entitled The Glory of Christ in the Recapitulation of
All Things in Him (pp. 357f). Referring to Colossians 1:20, 1 Corinthians 11:3,
Ephesians 1:22 and 23, he extols the power of the redemption whereby that which
in God's world had been scattered and broken asunder is re-collected under one
Head as one family-of-God, as one body.

Are these interpretations correct?

The Greek word used in Ephesians 1:10 does indeed allow other translations;
e.g. "gather together" (KJV), "to unite" (RSV).

It is all a matter of the "atmosphere" from which one thinks this particular
word derives, or of the "sphere" to which it points in its imagery.

According to one opinion, this word had its origin in a military setting. When
there are soldiers who have lost contact with their troops and are wandering
about here and there, one has to try, if possible, to bring them back to their
own detachment. This, then, is taken to be the meaning of the word concerned.
[18]

However, others offer a different interpretation. They have in mind not so much
military operations as arithmetical ones. Adding certain numbers, one gets the
"sum," the "result." "Sum" is in Latin summa. The idea is that of
con-summation. The final sum is made up and underlined, and everyone knows now
the result.[19] Christ could then be considered as the one who makes up the
final sum, the sum total, showing us: here is everything together. Others have
had in mind bookkeepers, who add up amounts of money[20] and give us the result
in the final amount.[21]

In the Greek language such a summary, such a summing up, may be called
kephalaion (something like: head, principal), and the verb that is used by the
apostle Paul is derived from it. According to this train of thought, Christ
Himself is the Head, the principal the sum total. But at the same time (!) "all
things" are gathered together, summed up, in this sum (the sum is then included
"in" the sum; all things are the sum, including Christ, according to this
peculiar train of thought which operates in a somewhat strange way with the
words "in Christ")

However, the number of proposed interpretations has still not been exhausted.
Others refer to a certain word that was used among the Jews in the days of the
apostle Paul It means so much as agreement' or "harmony" and is derived from a
root that can be translated as "head," or "result of the sum." This technical
term would then be in harmony with the Greek word kephalaion, and consequently
its meaning would be "being brought together (added up)," as well as "being in
harmony with each other"; ergo: "being gathered together in peace."[22]

We should like to mention a last opinion, one that points back to the schools
of the rhetoricians There an act such as meant Paul was a brief summary, in a
few main points, of what was earlier explained in a more elaborate way.[23]
Usually such a summary was not a "neutral," dispassionate summing up. but it
was accompanied by a sort of "application": an admonition, a castigation, a
word of consolation, or a conclusion stating a demand, as in a court case.[24]

One also encounters various combinations of these etymologies and
interpretations For instance, someone has the boldness to teach that man is a
microcosm, a world in miniature, comprising the elements of the created world
as in a summary, that Christ, as the second Adam, is God and man in one Person,
and that man (that compendium of "all things," that microcosm) will finally be
reunited with the eternal Word, the Logos.[25] Or: just as sometimes in civil
affairs a "member" that has been separated from its "head" (e.g., a woman
separated from her husband, the head) is brought back to her "head" and so
returns "home," the community to which it belongs (e.g., a woman is brought
back to her family), so the whole creation, now separated from God, will return
to Christ its Head, and be "home" again.[26] The creation is in that case the
reconciled party.[27]

As one can see, the opinions vary greatly.

Whoever wants to come to his own decision has to consider that the Greek word
used here does not go back to kephale (head), but to kephalaion. The latter has
clearly the meaning of "summary," as e.g. in Romans 13:9 and Hebrews 8:1. In
Romans 13:9, Paul says that the commandments of the second table can be
summarized in the sentence, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." This is
in all these commandments the ever recurring main point. It is the summary of
the Law. In Hebrews 8:1 the author states: "Now of the things which we have
spoken this is the sum: We have such an high priest" as has been introduced to
us in the New Testament. This is the sum of the whole argument. But whoever
announces a sum or summary, closes his books at the same time. This is how God
in the fullness of time will give the sum of history, of the history of "all
things." He will give the sum, not its summary in a sort of "microcosm," a
"compendium" of all cosmic elements, an "extract" of all that lives and moves
No, He will give the sum of and in the history of all things. He will give them
for Himself (medium). He will for I Himself bring all things to and in their
sum, [28] as one could translate freely.

Is this not a universal recapitulation, the completing and drawing up of the
sum of history? It is universal: for "all things" will be involved in it and
brought to their consummation.

However, these "all things" were no stationary quantities; they were
permanently in motion. In them the one history was enacted. The sense thereof
we understand not from those things nor from their movement itself. For, as we
said elsewhere also, the enigmatic aspect does not lie in the spoken or written
Word of God, but in the facts, in history itself. We understand the things and
their movements only in and from God's Word.

As a matter of fact, no one among men is able, in the manner of a rhetor, to
comprise the sum of the history of all things in any formula, not even if he
were to stand on his rhetor's toes. For we see only piecework, and we ourselves
are only piecework. Even the Messiah confesses His inability in this respect:
"But of that day and hour knoweth no man . . . but My Father only" (Matthew
24:36).

But God is the great Rhetor-Speaker, and also the great Poet-Creator. So He is
revealed as the only Recapitulator-Counter. His counting or adding is not the
act of a child that does its sums, but that of the administrator of time: He is
really doing something. He forces things to the end, to the decision. He speaks
in Word and fact. In His Word He gives us revelation; in the facts He Himself
is revealed. It is for that reason that He can make our sums and indeed does
make them; our sums are His sums. He had them already in mind even before our
life began. He is like the orator who grips his audience and keeps their
attention what will he say next? But then suddenly he says "Thank you," or
"Amen." The speaker himself knows full well when he has come to his conclusion,
his epilogue, in which he summarizes all that he has said and so brings his
oration to a close, to the sum in-words. But because we have to do here with
God, Who is not only the Speaker but also the Maker, the epilogue to His
speaking is at the same time the end of His acting. Because His doing is also
speaking and His speaking also doing, therefore, as soon as He has arrived at
the sum of revelation, He at the same time has arrived at the sum of-action. He
completes His historical speaking, and also His historical acting and labouring
and moving of all things "The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended," it
says in the book of Psalms (Psalm 72:20). The Greek translation has they are
brought to anakephalaiose -- the same word as in our text. The reflexive
summary given by the rhetor and the closing act of the worker are the same --
but with Him only.

And all this is done by God "in Christ." Not only in Him as the Son (Logos) Who
from eternity is closely related with the Father and the Spirit as their Equal
(as in Colossians 1), but also in Him as the glorified Savior, Who is seated
and has been placed at the right hand of God. In this glorified Christ, God
reigns over all things, for good and evil, in blessing and judgment. In Him He
brings all things to their end their consummation, as He has thought it out in
if is counsel and as He in His speaking and acting has revealed and realized
it.

For this is the great significance of Christ's glorification the Son of man as
God's fully authorized Agent has taken all things in hand God's Oration has
passed its half way mark. History has been brought to a decision. In the great
drama the third -- and decisive -- act has been completed. And now all things
must come to their denouement.

The latter, as Paul says, is dominated by Him. There is one single history only
and this is of a "Christian" character, that is, dominated by Jesus Christ.
History is also Pneumatic, that is, dominated by the Spirit Who takes it all
from Christ. We read our newspaper and listen to the radio, and we grope for
the background of what the democrats in-name in this era of quasi-democracy
systematically withhold from us in their deceptive press and their secret
diplomacy. We cannot find the sum. No rhetor says exactly what he means. He
himself does not even know his own sums, for the historical developments carry
him along and the programmes are things belonging to certain periods, and these
periods are becoming shorter and shorter. But our God in Christ has the sum in
His mind, and when He presently will end all that happens, then we at once will
see the sum of His policy And blessed is he who then will not be overcome by
it.

For the sum of "all things" is dominated by Christ, but He has been given as
"Head" to the "congregation," and to her alone. He has been put, not in the
centre of all things, as their compendium or microcosm but has been set above
and over all things, as their absolute Regent.

In the Head of the Church the sum of all things is drawn up. This statement
destroys the theory according to which the Church itself is a cultural state or
is allowed to become one. No encouragement is here given to any suggestion that
the Church -- which always, as institute, is to be instituted and therefore
never gives away the name of Church to whatever else, in order to characterize
the Christian communion in school, family, social life political life, etc. is
falsely called "the Church as organism" -- is directly a practical cultural
business, let alone an exponent of culture. This sort of concept concerning the
Church would murder her, violate her In a service in which the Word is
preached, the Church does not present a direct lecture on culture that goes
into all sorts of technical details, a thinly disguised university for the
people. But, on the other hand the administration of God's Word does put the
whole of life under promises and norms And God has closely connected great
promises with the official ministry of the Word, which is the administration of
the seed of regeneration" (Romans 10:17). Faith regenerates, says Article 24 of
the Belgic Confession. And this regeneration then takes place in the Church,
which brings forth children through the Word of God It is in this way that the
Church can, must, and is allowed to be a hearth where the man of God is from on
high "charged" with strength from on high. From the Church, where the Spirit of
Christ distributes the treasures of grace obtained by Him, the people of God
have to pour out over the earth in all directions and unto all human
activities, in order to proclaim over all this, and also to show in their own
actions, the dominion of God, the Kingdom of heaven. From the Church the fire
of obedience, the pure cultural glow included, must blaze forth all over the
world. Take the Church away and the Kingdom of God becomes a nebulous affair.
Put the Kingdom of God in the mist and the Christ is renounced, also in matters
of culture. It is in the Church that Christ lets the Spirit procreate children
of God. Only the Church, as the mother of believers brings forth the "new" men,
who, also as far as cultural life is concerned bear the burdens of the whole
world Only the Church joins them together into an unbreakable communion and
teaches the norms for all the relationships of life, even outside the Church.
The Church alone (not a so-called clergy!) is the bearer of God's Word, and can
in a national community proclaim the norms of God in the language of the time
and place concerned and so make known to that community what riches can,
according to its own nature, be developed in its life, and how this can and
should be done In the days when the Christian Church was strong, Christian art
flourished, and culture was a matter of turning the people's faces heavenward.
Today we have sunk to the low level of screaming films and of a theatre that
can maintain itself only if inferior items are not dropped from its programmes,
of newspapers that depend on a lay-out of sensational headlines, of radio plays
in which a novel is compressed into dialogue form with claptrap as method, even
of a Church-porch that lacks the courage to keep the announcements of all those
busy activities from its notice board. And a community of men that no longer
reads articles but only devours their headlines, presently allows itself to be
devoured. It is an easy prey for the day texts and ephemeral slogans that make
the universal and impertinent corruption by willfulness and self worship in
business and trade, in press and politics, into one wholesale outpouring of
sin, which has been organized so well and so rapidly that it hits the
individual with a feeling of impotence that is no longer even given the time to
shudder at itself.

Therefore, for the benefit of a Christian culture, that is, a culture that is
faithful to its own sense and purpose, all must work with might and main for
the upbuilding of the Church, of the body of Christ. Take the Church away and
what is really human is gone, while humanism, boasting about its own ruins,
returns. Take the Church and its confession away and the cultural hubris
(though in the shape of humbleness) will return which in the heyday of
philosophical Romanticism mesmerized the whole German nation, and others, by
its immanentistic pantheistic creed of an autonomous and autarkic oscillation
of all individually Gebildete[29] along with the divine spirit that blows
throughout the whole universe. For it is true that in its last period tire
Romantic school of the day, by the mouth of the Schlegel brothers,
simultaneously contradicted just about all its own slogans as derived from
Fichte, but its deepest root, the doctrine of man as growing up together with
God, has not been rooted out: National Socialism with its cultural projects is
proof of that. Take away the Church -- which, starting from the local
fellowship of the believers, will presently establish national and even
international connections -- and what is then left will be only an oscillation
of "cultural struggles" that put the strongest on the throne. The pantheistic
slogan concerning "the" right that is inherent in things may establish
tribunals which sentence people not in the name of the divine Legislator Who by
the grace of God made kings cultural shepherds but in the name of "justice"
(Seyss Inquart).[30] Then "the right of the strongest is the most simple
judicial formula. Formulas of justice and of power merge at last. And so, by
deterioration in the Church and over the dead bodies of the Church members, a
platform is built for the dictator of the last days, Antichrist. He will drill
them all according to his system, which is the most horrible of systems. The
Church should not be even the smallest direct centre of culture, but she must
be the greatest indirect cultural force. She is the Bride of Christ, that is,
the Bride of such a Bridegroom Who, unto Himself and unto His God, brings
together all the glory of the nations, and Who is building a city of the finest
symmetry. Hence the cubical form of the New Jerusalem.

                                      28.

The sixth consequence is that only through following Christ the individual can
become of value for cultural life. Culture is always a communal act. But every
communion that has not been bound together by God's Spirit lets the multitude
vegetate on the individual and usurp his rightful position. Sometimes -- a
dictator hailed as a savior is proof thereof -- it leaves itself (and the
individual leaves this communion) under the impression that this service of the
individual to the multitude is his divine and unfading ornament, and
consequently they make him the object of their adoration and worship. A
national movement that is based on such a foundation may stir and carry along
the masses but it kills the individual personality. What is introduced as
involvement is nothing but conformity. But when in the Old Testament the Law of
Sinai addresses itself, not to the Church in general but to the individual
Israelite, and when in the New Testament the Sermon on the Mount, that great
Canon also of culture, does the same thing, then even in cultural life the
individual is In any communal struggle always the one directly concerned, the
one addressed by God. Only he who has wittingly and willingly become an
office-bearer in following Christ and through Christ preserves in the suction
of often whirling cultural currents, his personal idion in the midst of the
ondriving force of the massive formations of "man power' that drag along the
individual or tread him under foot. "Man power" -- it is the querulous term
usually reserved for the description of an army that has been mobilized: kings
and dictators are said to make use of such "manpower." As if the boards of
"trade unions" do not act in the same way.

But one that has been hewn out of the Rock which is Christ, will -- as far as
it is up to him -- never separate but always distinguish himself (I Corinthians
2). Just as the Decalogue addressed the individual Israelite, the sermon on the
Mount addresses the Christian individually as well as others, and the Spirit,
joining Himself with the whole of God's Word as it issues forth, by acts of
re-creation, establishes a politeuma (Phillippians 3:20), of which we are the
citizens and which has its centre and royal residence in the heavens, and so on
earth works mighty things, in particular in creating a communion. The
politeuma, or state, which is in heaven will on its part never revolt against a
politeuma here below. But as soon as the earthly politeuma on its part commands
the citizens of the heavenly one to deny the latter (and the arena of the
struggle that then follows is always a cultural-religious one). Yes indeed,
then there is that painful inability to stem the tide. But even then, in every
period of cultural decadence, the great Steward and Custodian of God preserves
"the salt of the earth," so that it is sound and wholesome.

Whoever has been subjected to the Sermon on the Mount will perhaps be
astonished when confronted with that strange biblical word that says to him: Do
this and that, for otherwise 'must ye needs go out of the world" (I Corinthians
5:10). This seemingly accommodating word may make him wonder because, after
having heard the Sermon on the Mount, he actually thought he could never again
remain quiet and composed when listening to moralizing sermons of accommodation
Is it not a matter of chafing and pinching on all sides? To give and take --
does such a system not stand accursed in the Sermon on the Mount? Is not the
apocalyptic call, "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her
sins" (Revelation 18:4) a much more direct and much clearer motif?

The answer is: Not at all To come out of Babylon is not the same thing as to go
out of the world In biblical language "the world" is often, but not always,
identical with Babylon." To leave the harlot" (see above) and to pluck her does
not mean to condemn womanhood, to renounce nature (Ezekiel 16). Not to be
partakers of her sins does not mean: along with her creaturehood to deny or
abdicate the sunousia. Paul's word in I Corinthians 5:10 therefore does not
contradict the style and the complex of thought found in the Sermon on the
Mount, but has been organically included therein. For the Sermon on the Mount
was addressed to the Christians, also in their capacity as missionaries of God
in this world and as builders of the new world. For this reason a Christian is
never allowed to go out of this world. In this distorted world he simply has to
fulfill his duty before God. The tension that arises from our continuous
conflict with "this" world and the command never to go out of "the" world is
ultimately the tension between our lot of being in contact with men (sunousia)
and our daily duty to fellowship (koinonia). The latter, just as God wants it,
belongs in this sinful world to the antilegomena, the things and signs that
will always be spoken against.

Take away from the Sermon on the Mount the element of the instruction of
office-bearers, and that word about not going out of the world will be misused
in a horrible way by "the flesh" as if it were a general pardon and a carte
blanche to do all that pleases "the flesh." But it is quite the opposite.
Someone has said (Prof. B. Holwerda, De reformatie van onzen "omgang," 
[Utrecht, 1947], p. 15):

If you wish to use this word, you should take it exactly as it is written
there.

It does not mean: when you are in contact with the world you can patter with
your principles and not be so punctilious. For Paul said just before: you have
been redeemed by the cross of Christ and now you must celebrate the feast of
nothing but purity and truth . . Everything here stands in the climate of
absolute seriousness: it has to do with the cross of Calvary, and therefore you
cannot take things easy as far as the Church is concerned, in particular with
respect to Church discipline. Do you think that Paul would add now: however, in
the world it does not matter so much? On the contrary, he stays in the high
climate of perfect seriousness. Because of the cross of Calvary the matter of
your social intercourse with the world should be taken with perfect
seriousness... Is social intercourse with godless people in the Church allowed?
No, it is not, for God gave you the keys of the Kingdom of heaven... Is social
intercourse with godless people in the world permitted? Yes, it is, for if you
were to refuse it, you would go out of the "world."

                                      29.

Our seventh and final conclusion, then, is that, proceeding from this concept
of calling, the concept of office, our Christian cultural philosophy will have
to begin reasoning more consistently.

As Christian cultural theoretician one should no longer take 'common grace" in
the above rejected sense as startingpoint. The startingpoint must be: the
original calling, the task given at creation, the original office -- lest we be
drugged by cultural optimism or cultural contempt. As soon as this idea is
dropped, even the best among us begin to make mistakes.

Dr. Abraham Kuyper. e.g., in his De Gemeene Gratie in Wetenschap en Kunst ( i
904). p. 44 concedes to Von Hartmann that "religion" in its highest form
divests itself of its artistic garment. We are afraid that this reasoning about
"religion" is pantheistic rather than theistic. We are further of the opinion
that "religion" does not dress "itself" but that it makes its prophets
liturgists (and not only them) and dresses them all in the robes of office.
Even the artist may participate in weaving these garments. No, not the artist
exclusively, but the artist, too -- no more than anyone else has exclusive use
of the loom. "Religion" has never been dressed in artistic apparel, but has
provided many an artistic garment with the signature of the office and
distributed them as robes of office, on the understanding that this signature
would be left on and be tolerated by its bearer. A garment of office should
never be put off; rather, its distinctiveness should be renewed time and again.
This is why we said that in Calvinism the service of God should come to its own
peculiar style in all areas of life, to the extent that the above-discussed
"restraint" and "abstinence" do not stand in the way.

Neither do we, with regard to the above mentioned problem, seek our standpoint
in an "inborn religious consciousness," which would then try to express and
realize itself in religious culture. For man, also pious man should not live
his life to the full, but he should fulfill his office.

One's awareness of his office will always urge him to turn to the revelation of
God's Word, in order to learn again what the norms are. "Nature,"
enigmatically, does not teach us anything unless it is put in the light of
Scripture. His permanent awareness of his office, also with regard to his
cultural task, makes the Christian as prophet reach always for God's Word It
teaches him as priest never to confuse the office tempered love of life and joy
in culture as agape with the purely natural function of his eros, as if by
means of the latter God's calling were complied with -- Pallieter is a pagan!
And as king it never lets him reach out for life for the-sake-of life but for
his Creator, Whose servant and representative he is.

Thus the core of this problem lies in the second answer of Lord's Day 12 of the
Heidelberg Catechism. There John Calvin, through his disciples Ursinus and
Olevianus, becomes, by the grace of God, a cultural prophet He preached and
gave depth to the concept of man's office and taught us to understand again how
the struggle of sin and grace, of obedience and disobedience, is of paramount
importance in culture. Those who have passed through John Calvin's school will
never utter exclamations like those of the people who -- with a shudder which,
incidentally, we can understand -- see how, e.g., technical science is
developing in gigantic proportions and then with full emphasis cry out that in
technology man has triumphed, but he has triumphed to death: Er hat gesiegt
aber er hat sich tot gesiegt (H. Lilje). This cannot be correct. When someone
meets his death in any cultural field, it is never the consequence of any
cultural act but only of his own disobedience and unfaithfulness in fulfilling
his office. "Every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be
received with thanksgiving" (I Timothy 4:4). John Calvin's concept of autarky
is anti-gnostic.

JESUS CHRIST AND CULTURE, now for the last time.

Now the hearts may be opened, and the mouths; now the hands may set themselves
to work, and the feet bestir themselves unto service. The man who follows Jesus
Christ is splendid and sound in so far as he does so. Apart from that, he
professes precisely on his day of assembly and festivity (at the table of the
Lord's Supper) that he lies in the midst of death. Homo est, humani nihil a se
alienum putat. He has also become very concrete in all he does and says.
Novalis, the poet of Romanticism, once said:

                        Wherever darkness intensifies,
                    New life springs, fresh blood courses;
                  In order to establish eternal peace for us
                        He dives into the flood of life
              With His hands filled He is standing in our midst,
                   Lovingly listening to everyone's prayer.

Yes, indeed, He listens to everyone's prayer, but also to everyone's actions,
to the purposeful actions of the sober ones, for "they that be drunken are
drunken in the night, but let us, who are of the day, be sober," says a voice
from the midst of the choir of Bible authors (I Thessalonians 5:7). Novalis, a
Romanticist on principle, and consequently a pantheist and panchristist, sees
life rise up again where darkness intensifies; that is, where contrasts can no
longer be distinguished, where the unity of opposites is "experienced," and,
consequently, where purposeful action, action that is mindful of the
fundamental antithesis, is lacking. But our Christ does not know any soldiers
but those who belong to the day (which causes things to be distinguished). We
do not have a Christ Who merely listens (to prayers of sentiment) but One Who
looks on to see how we handle the spade, the hammer, the book, the needle, the
brush, and any other instrument, in order to draw out of the world -- ourselves
included -- all that God has put into it.

"Eschatological sermons please!," is the cry of many. But let another then cry
out that we should sow and saw and fly and telegraph in an Eschatological way.
Eschatological "theology" is demanded somewhere. But it is better to speak of
eschatological culture everywhere.

Therefore when Novalis says:

                    Let us in God's garden full of blessing
                     Faithfully tend the buds and flowers

then we answer that this world is no longer a Garden of God that is a "Garden
of Eden." The latter will return. But at this moment the world is a workshop,
an arena a building site. And the place where one meets God unlike what Novalis
apparently had in mind is not a secluded corner where the romantically disposed
soul practises "religion," in a province set apart for the soul. Neither is it
a "universe" placed in twilight not drawing any boundaries between God and
nature. For God's forum is today His workshop which is as wide as the world and
it is there that we find our workshop our factory the smoking oven the study
the studio; in a word any province any non-mathematical plane where "the man of
God thoroughly furnished unto all good works" (II Timothy 3:17), "faithfully
tends the buds and flowers," wherever there may be any, but also has his rubber
boots on or pulls out weeds or develops a desert region.

Is it an "endless task?" Yes, indeed. He knows of nothing but such endless
tasks 'fool" that he is -- "in Christ." It is the others who are foolhardy in
his opinion. And he is right.

Our cultural task in following Jesus Christ is indeed an "endless task."
Blessed is my wise ward-elder who does his home visiting in the right way. He
is a cultural force, although he may not be aware of it. Let them mock him:
they do not know what they are doing, those cultural gadabouts of the other
side!
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

[1] Anton Mussert was the "leader" of the National-Socialists in The
Netherlands before and during the Second World War (Translators' note)

[2] The Department of Culture (Cultuur-kamer) was one of the institutions
imposed upon the Dutch by the German occupying forces. Registration was
compulsory for e.g. artists although many of them preferred to cease their
activities or perform in secret (Translators' note).

[3] In both cases we have to apply quotation marks For those who together with
Him breathed the air of Palestine, were indeed with Him here on earth at the
same time, but His position with respect to and in time yet differed from
theirs And although we today do not see Him living among us we are nevertheless
as far as time is concerned His contemporaries: for as the living Kurios He
intervenes in our temporal existence. He Who as God and man in one person,
always in advance, lives for us and sympathizes with us.

[4] "Jesus" is usually called His personal name and "Christ" the name referring
to His office Of course there are several elements of truth in this
distinction. However, in His case, the name Joshua (Jesus) Is on purpose,
expressly, pleromatically, and therefore for this one case, exclusively
interpreted on the basis of the phrase "He shall save His people" (Matthew 1).
Consequently Joshua (Jesus) is the first name-of-office, it regards the
material of His office and commission. The second one (Christ) regards the
legitimacy, the concrete function and analysis of, and His suitability for this
commission.

[5] It has no sense here to argue about the question whether at every place in
the Bible that has the Greek word for (God's) "fellow-worker" the right
exegesis draws the same conclusions as the above-mentioned ones. For not one
single "text" but several require our attention here. Besides, the phrase
"God's fellow-worker" has been given a certain fixation in systematic theology
since the synergistic struggle.

[6] In can also -- even better -- be expressed in Greek: stoicheia (New
Testament).

[7] We take over the word "pluriform" although not without inverted commas --
for we do not share its philosophical background, which allows the use of this
term to be understood in more than one way.

[8] We are here alluding to the well-known Boethian definition of God as the
eternal One. According to this, God has a perfect and tota simul possessio, 
i.e., the possession of an interminable life (a life that cannot be limited).
This always remains something reserved for God only. Tota simul -- at the same
time in full measure (cf. perfectum praesens).

As for man, however, his life is always terminable (limited because he is a
creature). Temporally he does not "possess" life in a perfect sense. His
possession is no tota simul. In eternity (according to the character fo the
terminable) he possesses life (in his own way) "perfectly" and also (in his own
way again) tota simul: there is no longer any growth "in" it.

[9] Pallieter, by Felix Timmerman, published in Amsterdam, is a novel "in which
the main character embodies the pagan glorification of the body and its lusts
for life by running out naked in the spring rains and kissing the grounds"
(quoted from Henry R. Van Till, The Calvinistic Concept of Culture, page 140,
note 4).

[10]^ See further: K. Schilder, Is de term 'algemeene geneade' weteschappelijk
verantwoord? (Kampen: Ph. Zalsman, 1947).

[11] "Mystical" is an adjective (cf. mystical union). The substantive
"mysticism" however, designates something objectionable: the doctrine and
methods of an (alleged) immediate knowledge of God -- for which the Scriptures
allow no room.

[12] Cf. K. Schilder, Wat is de Hemel? (Kampen: J.H. Kok, 1935).

[13] The well known aria from the opera The Magic Flute, In diesen heiligen
Hallen, could other than in the "lodge" where it actually belongs, also be sung
in Church, without offending too many ears. Why? Because the composer's mind,
though drunk with Buddhist motifs, was unable to express its own pagan-teutonic
cycle of thoughts in adequate style forms: the style of the Church, this
product of many centuries, was still bothering him because he could not let his
paganism (Isis and Osiris) speak (cf. the above-mentioned "silence"). In my
opinion we cannot in this reasoning lake our startingpoint in common grace but
in common impotence which is the result of the tempering that allows no one to
transcend creation.

[14] [unsure of footnote location _ed] Franciscus Junius, a theologian of the
"flowering" of the Reformation, made a similar statement: de Deo etium verum
dicere periculosum est (even to speak the truth concerning God is dangerous).

[15] The author here refers to the declarations made by the above mentioned
Synods on e.g. presumptive regeneration and common grace and their decision
that "nothing should be taught which is not in full agreement with" these
declarations which caused a schism in De Gereformeerde Kerken in Nederland
(Translators' note)

[16] Heinrich Rickert (1863-1936) belonged to the "Neo Kantians" of the early
twentieth century (Translators' note)

[17] E.g. a Lapide, who refers to Jerome as a supporter of the translation
"recapitulation," and also to Irenaeus, Bibl. Cr. i.l., 92, refers to
Desiderius Erasmus and draws the conclusion that the correct translation is: ad
caput revocare; which is accepted by Vatablus, who, however, adds: vel, in
summam et compendium redigere (op. cit. 95). Cf Clarius (op. cit. 98):
recapitulare, h.e. summatim comprehendere et compendiose instaurare; and also
Zegerus (op. cit. 99): brevi recapitulatione implere et summatim complecti
universa mysteria longo tempore praenunciata. The translation "recapitulation''
occurs frequently, but its interpretation nevertheless varies. On Augustine,
see Menochius and others.

[18] Hugo Grotius, Hammondus, quoted in J.C. Wolfii, Curae Phil et Cr., 1734,
p. 23) for Grotius, cf his Ann. in NT., and Bibl. Cr. VIII, i.l. col 106, 113/
4. Grotius is not definite: quae significatio huic loco maxime convenit, Bibl.
Cr., 106.

[19] Dinant, on Ephesians: cf. Wolfii, 23; Camerun Bibl. Cr. VIII, 101.

[20] Cf. H. Grotii, Ann., i.l. 884, b.

[21] Leidsche Vertaling (Leyden Translation): in Christus saamvatten.

[22] Cf. Cameron in Bibl. Cr. 1.1.101

[23] Cameron, 1.1., cf. a Lapide, i.v. 475, b.

[24] Aretius, Comm. in N.T., 1612, i.l. 249.

[25] Irenaeus quoted in a Lapide, i.l. 475/6 Cf. Photius, quoted in Zanchius.
Opera, t. VI. 19, b.

[26] Aretius, op. cit.

[27] Aretius, op. cit.

[28] Medium; and further: "the causative idea. . . is not due to the voice but
to the verb itself" (-0-00), Robertson, Grammar N.T., 2nd ed., 809.

[29] Gebildete means literally: people who have been formed," "fashioned."
Within the context of Romanticism, however, this term means: people who have
risen to a level at which they are well aware of their own historicity and
individuality (Translators' note)

[30] Seyss Inquart was the Reichscommissar during the German occupation of The
Netherlands in the forties. (Translators' note)

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Return to CRTA
